ArcticMUD Zone Guide


A few of these zones have been revamped since this was written, and those that I 
remembered offhand are noted.

Zones aren’t really listed in any particular order, use the FIND tool to locate 
something specific.



**Dark Knights Outpost

At the ESW in the middle of the building itself there is a hidden locked grate 
D.  Key loads on Nightlord to the north.  Say 'skull' to port through the wall 
to Nightlord area.

West of ESW is Lily Champion who loads black steel longsword, black lily brooch, 
and black sword belt.  Can combine sword belt with the black scabbard that loads 
in the bed in her room to form 'a black scabbard belt' +dam.  Can combine lily 
brooch with 'a black cloak' from the knights/masters to form +hp 'cloak of the 
black lily'.  Keywords are 'join cloak brooch' or similar.

Champion of the Skull is south of ESW and loads armplates of lily (prot from 
good), green jade rings (+int/dex paladin/dk only) and a mithril partisan 
(nolore, 4d5++ rumored).  Say "Grant me your blessings for the battles to come" 
to activate the partisan.

Below grate is the dread revanant/high priestess#1 to the east.  Revanent loads 
a revanent skull (+dam maybe, unsure), high priestess loads ivory staff 
(possible darkness/restoration/steelskin/sacred ward cleric book).  Priestess 
also loads key to cells and western jail.

West of the corpse/priestess is the 2nd high priestess.  Loads dragon skull 
necklace (int/wis evil only) and pure black tunic (bodyworn evil only +heal).  
Tsu Wei is west of high priestess #2 (need high priestess#1 key), stabs hard and 
trip oblits.  Loads decent dagger and a whip offhand.  His head falls off after 
he dies, grab it and his key and go outside the zone.  Both groups of shadows 
can drop 'shadowy parchments' which summon nice bashing charmies by typing 
'translate parchment'.

Back outside the cave and north some is the bridge. Make sure everyone flying 
and drop off the west side of the bridge into the gorge.  Go west into the cave 
and type 'unl door' and 'ent shadows'.  Drop tsu's head in front of Trin Phung 
and he will go east.  Kill him (owl/wolf first makes it easier) and unlock the 
chest in his cave with his amulet.  Chest loads a nice neutral +hp shield for 
druids and also 2int +7th druid necklaces.


**Icewall Rift

Keep going west killing stuff and check each room for a cliff.  The first cliff 
leads nowhere ("climb cliff").  Climbing the 2nd cliff allows you to bypass the 
bridge which damages your party.  The 3rd cliff leads past some elite frost 
giant guards that drop giant's mauls (nolore, 4d5 -hr or -dex prim) and leads to 
a deadend.  Type 'climb ladder' at the deadend to fight the giant chieftain, who 
loads a 'troll bone ring' (+hp bracelet), 'lynx skin cloak' (+dex), and a 'huge 
hunting spear' (3d7++ spear that takes 27/28 str to prime).  Climbing back down 
the cliffs and continuing westward lead you to Icewall Castle.



**Icewall Castle

There are 2 or 3 ways to get inside the castle here.  Beware, Sleet and Feal-
Thas live in the northeastern courtyard.  Climb up the glacier, go to the north 
end, and keep going up.  You can either go into the backdoor and 'open slab' in 
the deadend room to sneak below the castle, or go up further and fight the ice 
giant guards who shout for help.  A 3rd option is to go even higher up and 
westward over the courtyard itself.  Don't let fly wear off or you'll fall into 
the grouped mobs.  Area helps a bunch since the grouped mobs repop repeatedly.  
"The castle commander" (note his name begins with THE, there are 'A' ones that 
drop nothing) drops 'spiked bronze bracers' (+dam -dex wrist), a decent offhand 
misc chain, and a 'dragon bone ring' (+str I think).  He also drops a key that 
you can use to unlock the rack in the very northern part of the courtyard 
(behind the door).  The rack loads a decent long blade prim ('huge iron 
broadsword' I believe) and a 'heavy wooden maul'.  East of the rack is a room 
where you can 'rummage' and kill a giant ice worm.  He drops 2 'frozen potions' 
that are rentable cure critical and resist cold.

Sleet and Feal-thas are tough mobs that load neat stuff.  Feal can load 'a white 
dragonwing cloak' (2dex can/autofly aboutworn), 'a fiery red armguard' (+hp I 
think), 'a redstone ring' (immdrain and probably +str or dam also), and 'fiery 
red cloth gloves' (+dam/hr of some sort).  Sleet drops the key to the chest near 
his pantry.  Feal also drops a key to his quarters.  Sleet's chest requires a 
skilled thief to disable (or die trying), and loads 'a sky blue ring of 
Paladine' (goodie +heal ring), 'a comfortable blue robe' (+learn mage), and 'an 
emerald tablet engraved with runes' (iceshield for druids).  To get to Feal's 
stash, you need to move 1 south of Sleet/Feal room and have group 'avoid trap'.  
Unlock the door and go in.  'Search fireplace' will give you a hint to where the 
key is for the door south.  The closet in the fireplace room can load 'icy 
adamantite banded mail' (bash_mod of some kind).  South of the fireplace room is 
an undead draconian who needs to die, then 'search books' to find another key.  
'Unlock/open secret' to get into the room east, and 'unlock/open pedestal' to 
check for the mage book.  Book could be anything ranging from clair to prism 
last I knew.  The sword 'Arctic Night' and one of the 'Dragon Orbs' also load in 
this zone, but I have been unable to find their location due to their perpetual 
deep-rentedness.  Note this 'dragon orb' is no_cleric.


**Celestial Temple

Arguably the most spammed and boring zone ever.  First thing is to find the 
guardians near the crypts outside who hold the key to the gate.  Kill them and 
head east/southward to the gate.  Unlock it and have group enter until together.  
On the first level you need to kill the 'temple guardian lord' groups and loot 
their keys.  These keys unlock 4 chests near the 4 corners of the temple (rooms 
with scribes).  1 chest loads the key to the central gate, and other chests can 
load 'a tablet of unending wisdom' (+2wis -health held), and either 'a scroll of 
ancient power' (power word stun norent scroll), or 'the scroll of ancient power' 
(a powerful enchant weapon scroll).  Also on the first floor are different types 
of guardians (sky/sun/moon/earth) that can load 'a red/blue/white/black guardian 
robe'.  Black robe is +str, red robe is +dex, white robe +int, blue robe +wis 
all about worn with nice long decay timers.  Guardians also load 'a large pole 
axe' which are 3d5 enchantable axes useful in some situations.  Around the 
northwest corner of this level is a statue of a druid, 'move statue' will open a 
D exit to the 'chamber of archimedes' which is a nice memroom and also loads 'an 
ancient, tattered cloak' on the ground (+3wis I think).

With the gate key, unlock the gate in the center of the temple and enter it to 
reach the 2nd level.  This level has Aurinites during daylight and Gargoyles 
during nighttime.  Note that once you leave the center room, a group of 
gargoyles will track and attack your group if it's nighttime.  1 north and all 
west of the center room is a room with a pot and a grate.  'Move grate' to 
reveal a D exit that leads down to the mem room.  To advance to the aurinite 
king/gargoyle chief, you need to kill the 2 gargoyle commanders and 2 aurinite 
lords, loot their keys, and get the key segements from their chests.  The 
gargoyle shamans load 'a robe of the Gargoyle clans' (weak bash_mod antigood), 
gargoyle warlocks loak 'a warlock's cloak' (neckworn antigood autofly).  A 
'granite bracer' (+dam -con antigood) and 'a granite sword' (3d6 antigood) also 
load on chieftain or commanders.  'A granite ring' (+str -con) also load 
somewhere here.  The aurinite lords load 'an aurinite ring' (+con antievil), and 
'a crystalline bracer' (+hr antievil).  'A robe of the Aurinite order' loads on 
high priests (+2int -con antievil), and 'an alchemist's cloak' (nosummon/nocharm 
antievil neckworn) loads on the alchemists.  The chests/tabernacles of this 
level can also load 'a small tattered prayerbook' (word of 
recall/summon/negative plane protection/sunbolt clerical book).  Once all 4 key 
segements are found from the chests 'combine key' and 'get key' to receive the 
key to unlock the central gate.

This gate leads to the Aurinite King and the Gargoyle Chieftain and their pets.  
The basilisk with the gargoyle chief can petrify, so beware.  You can 'slide 
tapestry' to open an exit to the west for purposes of fleeing and a few jewels.  
The aurinite king loads 'an Aurinite Kings cloak' (20hp aboutworn antievil) and 
'an Aurinite Kings bracer' (wristworn goodie +heal).  The gargoyle chieftain 
loads 'a Gargoyle Chieftain's cloak (+2dam aboutworn antigood) and 'a Gargoyle 
Chieftain's bracer' (wristworn evil +heal).  'The sword of Sacred 
Fires/Caliburn' load at a low % on the floor of this room (norent 3d7 
autofireshield longsword).


**Lemish and Garnet

Lemish is pretty straightforward.  Elite draconians load 'a red draconian 
bracelet' (evil only +hp wrist).  Lord Atin loads 'the black shield of Lemish' 
(unsure full stats, nice shield).  Mayor loads 'a white gold ring' (save_spell 
and canfly), 'a sword inlaid with sapphires' (5d3 ++ evil prime lblade) and a 
few other items I can't remember.  Kalnith the mage loads 'a small green orb' (-
con/hp +5th slot mageonly), 'a blue ring' (nolore +learn-ish ring), and 'a cloak 
of the mystics' (antineutral +learn neck).  Bali and his guard (nomagic room) 
load 'a thin red belt' (+dex) and 'a long diamond-edged blade' (4d4++ offy 
lblade).  Tolkunka loads a few druid items and tablets (call lightning, ice 
storm, cure critical).  Rogeneye (push boxes south of Kalnith, nomagic) loads 
+dex autosilence sleeves, and a few other thief items that rarely load.

Garnet is aggro evil so be careful when moving into the warleader/king.  Up 
above in the mountains Galan can load 'a ruby armband' (autoinvis) and 'a ruby 
axe' (3d5++ with lightning bolt special).  Inside the mountain (bottom level, 
'clear gravel' in the S only exit room) Garen loads 'a large quartz hammer' 
(1d20 lightweight -hr) and 'an olivine ring' (saves_breath), he is in nomagic.  
Westward into palace Pitch loads 'a polished plate of mithril' (+dex) and 'a 
magical dwarven stein' (refilling ale container).  Stoneroot's guards load -age 
neckworns, and his chest loads 'a star sapphire' (antievil +2wis held light) and 
'a chysoprase ring' (autoinvis).  One of these two also loads 'quartz-encrusted 
gauntlets' (2hr) and 'a thick belt layered with quartz' (+hr also).





**Xak Tsaroth

Not going into huge detail here.  Draconians can load 'a teeth chain' (4d4ish 
offhand misc), a hobgoblin can load 'a band of power' (wrist +str), and some mob 
loads 'a bone helm' (+hp headworn).  Khisanth can load tablets (temp path, 
plantwalk, pass without trace).  The statue can load 'a book bound with oily 
plates' (gust/cure disease clerical book).

Lower Xak loads 'the disks of mishakal' (heal clerical book, of course), and 'a 
sky blue tunic' (antievil +heal bodyworn) in the statue also.  2 south and up 
(enter crack) from the grotto there is a chest with a dt trap on it.  
Disable/picking this chest can yield 'a black hood' (+thiefskill) and 'an 
ancient elvish hood' (antievil +heal headworn).  There is an unfound quest 
delving deeper into the zone in which no one I know of has figured out.


**Thorbardin

Thorbardin loads various items.  The sergeants on the battlements can load 'a 
silver dwarven ring' (+con, +save_spell), the commander can load 'silver dwarven 
gauntlets' (+hr/dam).  Karter loads 'an emerald-shafted javelin' (3d5 or 2d7 or 
so stabber) and some weird casterable plate armor.  North, west, open door, n 
from the Crossroads is the secret path around the gate guards.  You have to 
'open wall' and go west a few times, eventually 'open carving' and going S to 
reach the central stairwell.  All up here leads to a tunnel heading west, which 
leads to Hornfel.  King Hornfel loads 'the hammer of Kharas' (neat blind-special 
hammer usable only by dwarves) and 'a golden dwarven talisman' (+int or wis or 
both neckworn antievil).  Looting his key and 'unlock secret' reveals some 
coins, a norent fast decay 2 heal wand, and 'a hooded red chasuble' (neutral 
only bodyworn +heal).  Down towards graknar and off an east exit leads to 3 
dwarven hearthguards who can drop 'a hearthguard's axe' (3d5 or so offy axe).


**Sanction (**Note: Inner Sanction was revamped recently and may be different)

This zone can load some very nice items if they arent deeprented already 
(riight).  The Weaponsmaster loads 'a lucern hammer' (4d4 enchantable polearm 
prime) and 'weaponsmasters gloves' (+dam/hr gloves).  The blacksmith can load 
'blacksmith's banded mail' (+15/20hp bodyworn), 'a steel voulge' (4d4 3/3 prime 
polearm), and 'a blacksmiths wristguard' (+str wristworn).  The 4 high 
priests/priestesses in the southeastern part of the city all load beltpouches 
that either have 'a flask of clear liquid' (rentable cure crit potion) or 'a 
blue vial' (rentable heal potion).  Smith also accepts 'a cuprite sample' 
(present/display/deliver keywords likely) to create 'a heavy cuprite battle axe' 
(nolore heavy very elite prime axe).  Sample loads in Kharolis mines safe.

The palace itself lies in the northeast part of the city, beware the 
nobash/reflect beholder that repops every 10-15mins or so.  Upstairs and east 
are 3 concubines that spec edrain but are wussy.  Upstairs west leads to Kitiara 
and her captain.  Captain will yell, calling in 2 personal guards and Skye.  
Kitiara loads 'a crystal pendant' (+int +5th slot neckworn), 'a thin golden 
wristband' (-save_spell 10 shield charges), and a gown which is a container with 
a key.  Get the key from the gown and go east, 'pull string' and go up.  
Unlock/loot the box.  Box loads 'blue dragonscale' pieces that are all 
enchantable and barbable, and also 'an engraved emerald knife' (4d4++ thief 
stabber) and 'a blue dragonmask' (+con headworn).  Personal guards also load 'a 
blue sash' (+disable).  South of the concubines is a dumb waiter in which you 
have a mage 'ride waiter'.  Once done, the mage needs to solo a wimpy guard, 
loot the dungeon key, and dimdoor/relo back to group.  

Back down on 1st floor, head east a few and north.  Find the 2 dark knights 
cleaning their swords and kill them.  They load 'a steel longsword' (3d6 1/1 
prime lblades).  Further east is a closed door, behind which is Cervos.  Cervos 
conjures 2 apprentices who need to be bashed.  Cervos can load 'a thin wooden 
wand' (magic missle spec), 'a small platinum talisman' (+5learn neckworn), and 
'a ring of protection' (-10ac ring).  Cervos loads tablets (firestorm, mass 
refresh, word of recall), and the other key to the basement.

West and south a few from Cervos is the locked door S leading to the basement.  
Down here, wait at the 2nd door for 2 tracking, stoneskinned, immune_elements 
golems.  Frag them down with acid/elefist/thorn/kick and move 3 north.  Beware 
golems and prison guards stick weapons.  West of this room is the Lady Succubus, 
Demon Torturer, and Lord Ariakas.  Demon Torturer sticks weapons also.  Lord 
Ariakas loads 'a mace of destruction' (very nice prim mace evil only), 'a set of 
power cussies' (+str legs antigood), 'a set of power brassards' (+str arm 
antigood), a 'red dragonmask' (+con autoinvis headworn), and 'a little red key' 
for the crate east of the concubine room.  Run back up to the crate and have a 
skilled thief disable the trap.  Crate can load a magebook 
(massinivs/haste/reloish very rare), 'a red dragonscale plate' (+20health evil 
only), 'red dragonscale gauntlets' (2dam/2hr evilonly), 'a banner of the 
dragonarmies' (+dam light held evilonly), and 'a steel halberd' (3d6 3/3 prime 
polearm).


**Forgotten Temple

Another overspammed zone.  Beings by killing gateguards and then 5-10+ 
scan_tracking dark knight mobs.  Area helps but assisting is plenty on a decent 
group.  Head east or west and send tank up onto battlements.  Guards/officers 
will likely scan_track, they hit hard if all together.  Officer can load 'a 
tarnished iron ring of the watch' (sense_life) and the key to the commander's 
room.  Head all south (watch for guards) and either east or west depending which 
side you're on.  Archer loads 'a large darkwood bow' (3d7 ++), 'a pair of spiked 
demi-gauntlets' (+dam +dex), and 'a three-strap leather bracer' (+str wrist).  
Commander loads 'a stone sword' which is a key.  Take the sword down to the 
Statue of Paladine, unlock/loot the crown and go west, and north to fight 2 more 
knights.  'Unlock/open doors' at the deadend to procede.  From the NESW: east is 
toward the mages and balor, west is toward the trainer and Krona, and north is 
toward Ombra.  Kill the mages first, who can load 'a dark cudgel' (3d5 offhand 
autofly), and 'get all bookshelf' to get the 1st page.  Kill Tesiak east, loot 
the 2nd page.  'combine page page' then 'decipher page' 'g key' and unlock/loot 
the chest in the room.  Chest loads 'a sparkling black bracelet' (immdrain 
wristworn), 'mottled robes of the Archmage' (+hp nocharm bodyworn), and a 
locate/forcebolt level spellbook.  If you want to piss off and kill the balor, 
'destroy circle'.  He is nobash/reflectish and loads 'a massive black runed 
sword' (3d7 3hr evilonly 2hander).

Heading back west, kill the trainer and his trainees.  Trainer loads 'a 
weaponmaster's blade' (3d6 ++ prime lblade).  Trainees can load 'a black 
training amulet' (antigood +hr neckworn).  Northwest of trainer, be sure to kill 
the 3 knights to the west.  Next kill the general and Krona.  General loads a 
key for the desk in his room, and Krona loads 'a skull-capped mithril battle 
axe' (4d4++ axe prime), and 'skull-encased mithril pauldrons' (+con +dam).  Loot 
key from general, unlock/loot desk, and go back to NESW.

Go north, west (kill priest) and 'smash statue' to get the 2nd rose piece.  
'Combine rod bud' to make the rose.  Head east and north to fight Ombra.  The 
minions hit very hard, so be sure to heal every round until one dies.  Ombra 
himself loads 'a ruby encrusted battle flail' (3d6++ cleric prime).  'Slide 
tapestry' here to procede.  The next fight is a stoneskinned golem in a 
no_cleric_magic room.  Have tanks/casters frag it down while fleeing out for 
heals.  

Once it's dead, move in and 'place rose pedestal' and 'enter portal'.  Now there 
are 3 riddles to solve.  First one is 'say evil', 2nd is 'say will', 3rd is 'say 
win'.  After entering all the portals 'poke man' to wake him up and get Walker 
to follow you.  Head all east and then all south.  There is a fiend east of here 
that loads some whip but usually gets skipped.  Have a lawful good character 
'touch rune' then you can 'open/move rune' and move south to Samus.  Samus is 
imm_elements and has a special that causes 150-200 damage and lags he uses 
randomly on anyone in room.  He loads +str plate, +dex boots, imm_drain ring, 
+3hr gauntlets, and 'a tainted medallion of paladine' (neut only +heal neck).


**Graknar

Located beneath Thorbardin at the bottom of the spiral staircase.  No enormous 
secrets here.  Straightforward kill everything aggro you see.  Turning south at 
the entrance leads to dark elven raiders, leader loads 'an obsidian ring' 
(casteronly det invis).  There is also a mindflayer at the eastern edge that 
loads 'a glowing adamantite bracer' (+5hp wristworn) and 'dark elven skin boots' 
(mage/druid imm poison).  Turning east before the gate of Graknar itself leads 
to a deep wyrm, which is probably the toughest mob in the zone.  He is high 
%reflect and loads 'dragon power armor' (+str and other stats I believe, 
unsure).  The theiwar patrol leader loads 'a two-handed battle axe' (4d6 or so 
2handed axe) and 'a belly skewer' (-2/3 hitroll +dam headworn).

Once inside the city and at the square, west leads to the master assassin 
(beware trackers, open panel at the north room at the very west end).  East 
leads to the theiwar nobles who load 'an obsidian bracelet' (+wis druidonly 
wrist), and further east leads to the smith who can repair some medium-range 
gear.  North from the square is the palace, in which are the priests of Hiddukel 
and Grap.  The priests load 'a mithril cube' (-int held autoinvis), and 'a pair 
of obsidian bracers' (armworn +wis -con).  The high priest loads 'a jade 
medallion' (+turn), 'a long string of prayer beads' (ancient 
curse/heroism/fortify self clerical book), and 'a sphere of souls' (antigood 
held autofly).  Grap himself loads 'a black theiwar coat' (antigood +heal 
bodyworn), 'a chain flail' (2d8 or so +bash blud prime), and 'a pair of face 
rippers' (-2dex +2dam handworn).  The treasure room to the west of Grap's rooms 
can load 'a granite ring' (casteronly +con).


**Kharolis Mines

An interesting zone that can load very nice coins and a few neat items.  On the 
goodie side, the mine overseer loads 'a heavy brass bastard sword' (3d6++ 
2hander primeable with 24/25str), 'a pair of silver dwarven gauntlets' (+dam/hr 
handworn).  His sentries can load 'a copper dwarven ring' (-int +con).  The 
foreman who wanders the mines loads 'a dwarven cuprite ring' (norent +con quest 
item in the lower part of the zone).  Magnus ver Magnussin can load 'a large 
copper ignot' that can be presented to the armor smith in Thorbardin to receive 
'a suit of spiked copper plate' (-2dex +dam bodyworn).

There are 2 major exp quests in this zone.  If you are good aligned, grab 2 
pick-axes that are lying about or kill miners and find the Abandoned Tunnel.  
Type 'dig west' twice to open up the lower part of the zone.  Go down the path, 
and down at the Fog.  Beware you have to fight 4-6 stabbing kua-toa scouts.  
Once they're dead head all west until a Slippery Bank.  Go up and into the kua-
toa city.  South from here leads to the kua-toa shaman, who loads 'a transparent 
fish-skin bracelet' (wristworn +wis) and 'a transparent fish-skin robe' (about 
worn autoinvis).  Shaman also rarely loads druid tablets (charm monster, 
tornado).  North of the shaman and past the entrance there is an up exit that 
leads to the kua-toa chieftain.  He doesn't cast spells, but he has a special to 
prism that he likes to spam happily. Two elite guards will track into the room 
when he dies.  He loads 'a crown of the kua-toa chieftain' (norent waterbreath 
quest item upstairs), 'an aqua-green azurite scepter' (held light autofly with 1 
charge of iceshield), and 'an azurite medallion' (unsure stats, likely +learn). 
Take his crown back upstairs and give it to yourself in front of the foreman to 
receive ~700k experience and a key.  Take the key to the southwest portion of 
the mines and unlock the foreman's chest.  Inside loads 'a strip of birtchbark' 
(rentable 3 healing mist/mass refresh wand), 'a silver dwarven medallion' 
(+hitroll neckworn), and 'a pair of bornite sleeves' (+dam armworn)

If you are evil aligned, kill the dwarven foreman and loot his cuprite ring.  
Take the ring down to the kua-toa chieftain and drop it to receive ~700k exp and 
'a tri-jeweled ring' (key to chieftain's chest).  Go back onto the dark lake and 
move around until you find the room with a down exit.  Dispel/remove your fly, 
hold a light, and go 2down.  Don't talk while doing this.  The chest loads 'a 
pair of green stained leggings' (legworn canfly), 'a moist-blue green scroll' 
(norent heal scroll), and a few other items.  'Touch rune' to receive 
waterbreath and fly back up to your group.

There is also another side of the upper portion of this zone.  Kill the mine 
overseer and loot his key.  Go all west to the mine office, 'g cup table, 'shake 
cup' and receive another key.  Go 2 east, north and disable (just a lightning 
bolt trap) and loot the safe.  Take that key back to the mine office and 
unlock/open the vault.  Loot the crate of dynamite and give it to your tank.  
Another 'large copper ignot' can load in here for the spiked plate armor.  Move 
group down into the mine and all north.  Go up at the up exit and kill the 2 
dwarf guards there.  Unlock the door to the north and send the tank all north, 
east, north to 'A Sealed Tunnel'.  Be sure the tank is in this room, and have 
him 'light crate'.  He will take some damage and cause an earthquake.  Move the 
group inside and go 2 east when you can.  'Open door' to open the secret, and 
kill the 2 theiwars to the south to cause their invasion.  Now the mines will be 
overrun by theiwars instead of hylar.  Make your way back down toward the 
foreman's chest, killing the theiwars for good coinage enroute.  In the chest 
room will be 2 guards and a named warrior who loads 'a dark shield of Kharolis' 
(nice heavy bashing shield) and 'a pair of granite Theiwar gauntlets' (antigood 
+con hands).  Killing the warrior causes Jehnzan and Kayhnar to pop back at the 
Sealed Tunnel where your tank blew up the crate.  Jehnzan is a mage, Kayhnar an 
assassin who both hit decently hard.  Jehnz loads 'a suit of flowing black 
armor' (antigood +7th slots autoinvis mageonly), Kayhnar loads some sleeves that 
are probably +dex.  Jehnzan also loads a key to the wall safe in the foreman's 
chest room.  After killing these 2, head back there and check out the safe.  
Inside loads 'a cuprite sample' that can be presented to the sanction smith to 
receive 'a heavy cuprite battle axe' (heavy, nolore, deadly axe prime).


**Village of Mortigoth

Straightfoward kill everything zone with a lot of dts, so be scanning.  The ogre 
leader loads 'a sword of carved obsidian' (3d6 1/1 lblade prime antigood) and a 
few other misc items.  The cave wyrm loads 'a wicked wyrm tooth dagger' (decent 
thiefy offhand piercer).  Further in, the evil treant can load 'a treant leaf 
potion' (norent heal/barkskin potion).  The ogre patrol leader inside the 
village can load 'a pair of razor-lined gloves' (+dam handworn), and 'a shirt of 
black chainmail or somesuch' (+str bodyworn).  The ogre shaman west of the city 
can load 'a human bone ring' (-5hp +wis ring), and 'a thick, woolen cloak' (+5hp 
aboutworn).  Grisk, the ogre leader can load 'a collosal battle axe' (3d6 3/3 
axe prime) and the items also loaded by the 2nd patrol leader.  Once all the 
ogres in the village have been killed, you can free the mayor east/north of the 
square to receive 500-700k exp for a good aligned char.


**Storms Keep

This zone was much better before the revamp, but anyways.  Begin by having your 
group (not you) all type 'accept' at Sara and the dragon.  Type 'listen sara' 
and let her talk until she drops both a letter and a golden amulet.  Loot these 
and accept.  Move north to the gate and kill the kender/janitor.  Have someone 
with high strength 'knock gate' to get the guard's attention.  Kill the guard 
when he comes out quickly, try to keep him floor so he doesn't escape.  Loot the 
key and open the gate.  There will be 5-10 tracking knights/warriors you may 
want to filter out slowly.  Move north into the keep (not everything is aggro) 
until you can see Steel.  Send in your tank, and 'display letter' and 'display 
gold.amulet' to get Steel to run off.  Kill the mobs, and move west (few more 
tracking mobs).  Head north and kill the guards/dragons/captain.  Head north of 
the dragonrider captain, and look at the smith.  Blacksmith can load 'a leather 
jerkin' (+str/+hr bodyworn) and 'a pair of wicked black boots' (+dam footworn 
nonmetal).  Note the blacksmith's room is nomagic.  North and east of smith is 
the stable keeper, kill him for a key.  Head back west, and a few south and 
unlock the door east.  More trackers come here.  Go east, kill the champion of 
lily, who can load 'black lily gauntlets' (+con handworn antigood) and 'the 
plate of the black lily' (+con bodyworn antigood).  He also loads a key you will 
need.  Head south and kill Romis and his guards.  Romis can load 'an ebony 
hilted gleaming sword' (nice high-str offhand lblade) and 'an ebony shield' 
(+bash shield).  He also loads a key.  Head back north to the champion room, and 
then east.  More trackers at this locked door.  Head through the door and 
northward to the barracks.  At the northeast end is Steels room, go in and 
'convince steel' or 'challenge steel' (it may be a new kw but it won't be too 
hard to figure).  Take Steel back down to Romis area and he will open up a 
secret.  Follow the path until you can see Grom, and kill him.  Do not touch the 
knight in the room while Grom is alive.  Once Grom dies, have one of your 
healers heal the knight.  This is good exp if it's done alone.  Take the group 
back up the path and west of the cabinet until Steel pushes a button and 
vanishes.  Have your group all push button to reach the upper level of the keep.

Up from this room are a few more trackers and some master of the thorn mage 
mobs.  Keep the mages bashed--they can edrain/stun/tent etc.  Head north from 
here and unlock the west door and fight the 3 tracking, healing knights of the 
skull.  The high priestess also wanders these few rooms, find and kill her.  She 
loads 'a small, tattered prayerbook' (word of recall/sunbolt/summon/negative 
plane protection clerical book).  North of the skulls room are 2 minor priests, 
kill them without touching the kender.  Once dead, have someone you want to 
control Steel as a charmie 'push 2.button'.  Now head back to the central room 
of the upper level.  Head east and kill the guards and the stoneskinned golem to 
find a mem room.  North of the mem room is a nomagic fight with a lord of the 
lily.  There is a door to the west of him that leads to the old Ariakan room, 
but is now a trap set by Lord Saq.  You can either overbash/silence Saq (tough 
to pull off) or just kill everything.  If Saq manages to yell, kill guard guard 
lord captain dragon.  Otherwise you only have to deal with Saq and his guard(s).  
Once all these mobs are dead, 'roll statue' and open the door east to head back 
to the mem room, and 'move/push fireplace' to open a doorway north.  North of 
Saq is another fight.  This fight order is usually guard guard high lord, have 
someone bashing high priest and bashing lord Yath.  This fight can load 'a 
sterling ornate orb' (unsure stats, +con held maybe).  Once done with this fight 
head back to the button room.  Steel will automatically 'push button' and have 
your group do the same.

Head back to the courtyard, being cautious.  You will find a group of Shriners 
there that you need to kill.  Best kill order is Abraxas, Thar, Katsuhiro, 
Isamu.  They load a few various items of no excitement, and Abraxas loads the 
key needed for lord Noom.  Loot them, find the fountain near the smith (Steel 
will say something about Noom), and head back to the button once again.  Push it 
(mem in the memroom if necessary) and head further up into the keep.  The 
'guardian of the tower' dies quickly if you blind it.  Once at the top of the 
keep, you can go south to fight Kul who loads 'the amulet of Kul' (5hp detinvis 
neckworn) and 'a transparent shroud' (about worn autoinvis).  Once he's dead, go 
back the other way and head north.  You'll have to fight some knights/masters 
again.  Make sure you are flying and try to spin your group north.  You'll end 
up in a room with a down exit a few times, this room is a nofly dt so don't go 
down.  Keep trying to go north from the center room until you succeed.  From 
here, 'shatter 2.mirror (or 1.mirror if you have the mirror key packed)', move 
north, and 'unl door w'.  West of here is lord Noom and his 2 demons.  Noom is 
not nearly as deadly as he was before the revamp, but he can still be a pain in 
the ass if you are low on clerics.  Kill his demons first (stabbing them on 
entry or having tank kick/charge the first one helps) while keeping noom on his 
ass with charges/bashes.  He areas like any other high mage mob and has his own 
flesh decay area spell that does quite a bit of damage.  Noom loads 'a robe of 
the elements' (body worn autoinvis), 'an obsidian crown' (mageonly 2int 
autoinvis head), and 'the black staff of shadows' (immune_edrain prime staff 
mageonly).  You can 'push/move chest' to get below the room and loot the coins.  
Either Noom himself or the hidden room can load a magebook.  This is probably 
the most chaotic book load in the game.  It can be anything from forcebolt to 
(uniquely so far) prism.  The mirrored monocle is needed to reach Ariakan so be 
sure to loot it.  Move back to the mem room and mem.

From here, move west, south, west and wear the monocle.  You will then be able 
to 'ent passage' to reach the secret area of Ariakan.  Sara will be in the room 
for this fight so don't use area.  This fight can either be really nasty or 
pretty easy depend on how your saves fair.  When you move in, kill the guards as 
fast as you can.  Once Ariakan/Flare arrive the kill order (assuming everything 
is alive) is guard guard guard guard dragon lord.  Ariakan can load 'a skull 
helm of takhisis' (antigood immune_heat headworn), 'a gleaming ivory staff' 
(4d4++ offhand blud), 'a black lily pendant' (+10hp neckworn antigood/evilonly 
perhaps), 'a pair of dark legplates' (+dam legs), and/or 'the dark plates of 
Takhisis' (+dam legworn evilonly).  If Steel and his owner survived, you can 
'free sara' with Steel in the room to receive upwards of 1million experiece for 
a goodie char and a key.  This key opens either the cabinet in the lily champion 
room, or the silver box beneath lord Saq's room.  You can 'open rug' in Saq's 
room to access the box.  The cabinet loads 'an old tarnished lance' (antievil 
2d12 ++ piercer prime) and a druid tablet (mass refresh, firestorm, word of 
recall).  The silver box loads 'a golden orb' (held light +7th circle clericonly 
that is also a heal wand).



**Mystic Isles

This zone is west of Drac Tower and also past the evil great white shark.  In 
the village, the high priest and his posee load 'an alb' (+8hp +wis aboutworn), 
'a papal cross' (goodonly autofly held light), 'a maniple' (+int wristworn 
clericonly), and a cure disease/gust clerical book.  To progess deeper into the 
zone, move west a few of the high priest to the fountain and 'move/push 
fountain'.  Go down and loot the key.  Next head north to the gate, and then 
east a few until you find the Commander to your north.  Kill him and loot 'a 
letter' from his corpse.  Go back to the gate and murder the gateguards.  Move 
north to the golems.  From here you have to fight through a forest full of 
annoying-ass giants and giant mages.  The path through the forest is this:  
n,u,e,d,n,u,n.  Once you reach the last room 'open bark' and have a nonevil 
'agree' or 'accept' what Miles says.  Loot the key he drops and go back down 
into the forest.  Head north until you reach the corner of the castle and head 
east to find the gate.  A few east of the gate is the giant commander and a 
draconian advisor.  These two can load 'a leopard skin cloak' (+dex aboutworn), 
'a leopard skin sash' (+dex waistworn), and 'a suit of crimson banded mail' 
(+dex bodyworn).  Head back west to the castle.

Once inside, get to the central room and go south.  Have everyone either 'enter' 
or 'touch mirror' (both commands do the same thing).  Move the group 2 north.  
If the room does not have a closed down exit, move back 2 south and have group 
'enter' or 'touch mirror' again.  Repeat this until you reach the room with the 
down exit.  Leave your group there and head back south and touch the mirror.  
Now you need to find 2 keys.  Go 2 north and south until you find an NES exit 
room and go east.  Type 'open statue' twice, loot the key from the statue, and 
flee from the one that attacks you.  Head back south and touch the mirror.  Now 
go 2 north again until you reach an ES room.  Once there go east, 'get key' and 
'smash orb'.  Now keep going 2 north, south, touch mirror until you reach your 
group.  If you end up in the labyrinth at some point, moving u,n,u,d,s will get 
you out.  Once back at your group 'unlock crate' and loot the key, then unlock 
the D door and go down.  Don't touch anything in the next room.  'Unlock silver' 
and head 2 east past the dt room.

From here you can go south/up to the battlements.  The archers here can load 'a 
fine silver bow' (3d7 1/1 bows) and the captain can load 'a mystic bow' (3d7 3/3 
bow).  Find the door to the tower and head up.  At the top there are 3 scholars 
and a mentor.  Quock can load 'a long rope and pouch' (+int beltworn container) 
and 'a moon staff' (+int mage weapon/offhand).  He also loads tablets 
(paralysis, cone of cold).  Once done head back down into the keep and go north 
into the library.  Here, 'pull/move rug' and then 'touch floor' to open a north 
exit.  Go north and 'present letter' to the general to receive the key to the 
queen.  Head north to the queen and her dragon.  The queen can load a crappy 
offhand misc crossbow, 'the royal shield' (norent 40hp shield), 'the queen's 
diamond wedding ring' (+learn ring), 'a silver fauld' (+con waistworn), 'a 
silver tuille' (2dex legworn), and a crown I can't remember.  

East of the queen is the vault.  There are different items scattered about the 
zone that give clues to the combination, but I haven't taken the time to search 
for them.  Past the vault you can go all north, south, north to reach the door 
to the king's ghost.  This is a dangerous nomagic fight against the king and his 
3 undead guards.  The best plan here is to have your tank go in and flee as soon 
as the minions arrive.  Now, you'll want your tank to go in and flee 
immediately.  Once he does, move the group in and have them kill 3.minion first.  
If it doesn't die in 2 rounds have everyone flee out and heal them up.  Repeat 
this until 3.minion dies.  Once it's dead flee out and heal.  Again, send the 
tank in to flee instantly, and then move in and kill 1.minion until its dead or 
2 rounds pass.  Repeat until it dies.  Again have the tank enter/flee to target 
and kill the last remaining minion.  Once the last minion dies, kill the king 
like it is any old nomagic fight.  The king's tomb can load 'a diamond bracelet' 
(goodonly +2dam wrist), 'a pair of diamond circlets' (immune_cold armworn), 'a 
pair of combat sollerets' (+dam footworn), and a possible magebook.  I am unsure 
what spells load in this book, should be from relocate or mirror image level.


**Forest Shrine of Habbakuk (Shayds)

This is a pretty simple zone filled with good aligned forest mobs.  It's located 
south of Mt. Nevermind by passing through a hidden exist in a barren forest.  
The first area is spin rooms with a bunch of wandering mobs.  Fight through them 
(bash the druids if they assist) and head eastward until you reach a stream.  
Remove everyones' flies and waterbreath everybody.  Head south, down, and all 
south once this is done.  2 sentries are above you from here.  South of these 
sentries are 3-4 tracking wolves that have very low hps but hit kinda hard.  
Kill them quick.  Wander the village killing elves/sentries/humans/grim hunters.  
Note that any room that discusses 'moisture' at the end of its description is 
nomagic.  Sentries and Grim hunters can load 'a woodsman's ring' (saves_spell 
ring), 'a pair of woodsman's sleeves' (+str armworn), 'a pair of woodsman's 
leggings' (+something I can't remember), 'a woodsman's vest' (+con bodyworn).  
In the southwest corner of the village you can fight Shaylon, who loads 'a green 
hilted machete' (3d5 ++ prime lblade).  The northwest corner is the nomagic 
fight with Elowyn and Leaf.  Leaf can load 'a windswept sandstone tablet' (can 
be any winds spell druid), 'an earthen mace' (8hp prime/offhand), and 'a heavy 
earthen plate' (druidonly +wis bodyworn).  This fight also loads the fake 'extra 
silvery potion' which is harm instead of heal.  In the center, southern portion 
of the village is the Elder Mystic nomagic fight.  The room north of him is also 
nomagic, so it's best to have the tanks flee and go north to receive healing.  
Kill the clay golem first and bash the elder.  The elder can load 'a hypnotic 
medallion' (+gaze dkonly neckworn) and a spellbook around ams/relo level.  The 
chest in his room is hard_pick and can load 'an extra silvery potion' (rentable 
heal potion), and 'a suit of woodsman's armor' (neutral only bodyworn +heal).

Moving around the mystic hut you can enter Suicide Alley.  This is a series of 
spin rooms in which 2 caster undead spawn everytime you enter.  Keep moving 
through it until you come out into the Fey woods.  A jungle wyrm will track to 
you here, but he's not too deadly.  He can drop 'a plate of elfish bones' (evil 
only +str -int bodyworn).  The giants in this area can load 'a giant scalp 
shield' (heavy evil only saves_spell shield).  The centaurs can load 'a bloody 
centaur skull' (+gaze dkonly headworn).  The pixies can load 'a cracked pixie 
skull' (antigood canfly ring).  The group of dryads can load a 2int/2wis norent 
headpiece and 'some dryad skin sleeves' (evil thief only +dex arms).  





**Isle of Shadows

There are 2 ways into this zone.  If you have a lot of tanks you can go up at 
the cliff and go in the main route.  Kill the dragon Khita and 'enter nest' and 
then 'move eggs' and head down.  Kill the waterweirds and head east to the 
deadend.  Have a few strong people 'turn statue' and move north.  Kill the 
undead guardian and 'slide sarcophagus'.  Tero is a dangerous, hard-hitting 
nomagic fight.  He is also worth 500k+ experience if you aren't ranked.  Have 
the tanks all go down and kill him, assign 1 warrior as the basher.  Be sure to 
rescue off at fair/bad and instantly if Tero bashes someone.  Have the tanks 
flee or go up for heals.  Tero loads 'a pair of heavily scratched gauntlets' 
(used to be +2hr/+2dam neutral only, unsure now), and a nice belt I can't 
remember the name of.  Loot the dagger he drops and unlock the door above him to 
continue into the zone.  From the central staircase room you can go up twice to 
fight the thief/stabber mob Shiira.  Shiira loads 'a pair of greasy footpands' 
(ranger/thief only +2dex footworn), 'a golden nail' (+pick), and a glowing 
dagger that generally sucks.  Head back down to the basement.  East of the 
bottom is a guardian golem who can load 'a suit of marble plate' (clericish 
saves_spell bodyworn).  In this room and the room south there are 'revered sons 
of darkness' who each can load 'a black crystal staff' (lightweight 2wis prime 
blud).  Loot the marble shard from the golem and unlock the door east.  North of 
the golem is Walcanar and Aegis.  This can be a long fight if you don't have a 
paladin so make sure you have a good number of heals.  You can either have 
everyone kill Walcanar and bash Aegis or just have people kill/bash Aegis.  
Absolution works well on Walcanar.  Walcanar can load 'a wreteched medallion' 
(nolore +heal det invis nv evil only cleric neckworn), 'a dark blue robe' 
(norent imm heat/cold aboutworn), and 'an ivory staff' 
(steelskin/darkness/sacred ward/restoration clerical book).  Aegis can load 'a 
green demonic ring' (+1 all slot evil mage only -con/hp) and 'a small golden 
trident' (10hp +int piercer prime casteronly).  The chest in this room requires 
a thief and is hard_pick, and loads a key for the quest and 'a black pearl 
inlaid ring' (autofly imm_drain ring).

East of the golem is the room leading to 5headed.  By saying 'selur idhob' you 
are transported to a 1man room west of the dragon.  Evil characters can enter 
the dragon's lair without being aggroed, but neutral/goodies will piss it off 
nicely.  This is an extremely tough fight that can be insanely unpredictable.  
The best method to win is to have all your evil chars in the room and grouped 
up.  When ready, have your non evils (has to be done 1 at a time) say the 
keyword, enter the lair, and follow the leader.  Having your tank do this first 
is a good idea if he's not evil.  Once you get everyone in the room, do your 
best to get everybody killing 1.head 1.head 1.head 1.head until they are all 
dead.  Area is godly here, if you can keep your casters alive.  Once 2/3 heads 
die, it becomes much easier.  Once down to just the body, have your healers 
retreat and mem while 1 keeps casting.  The body can heal itself numerous times 
and has a lot of hps.  If you win, its a huge rank, 2million exp, and can load 
the best spellbooks in the game barring pws.

The other entrance to Shadow is for use if you don't have enough tanks to kill 
Tero, you want to do Caldean, and you have a thief.  Go north and east from the 
base of the cliff and 'pull branch'.  Then go 2 north and all west to reach the 
keep.  Keep the doors around you closed to hinder the tracking of the masters of 
dread annoying mobs.  The room to the west of the 1st keep room has a door to 
the west that must be picked by a thief, and is hard_pick.  North of this center 
room is the dark lord captain who can load a few mundane items.  In the captains 
room, have a sanctuaried mage 'ent wardrobe', 'open crack', go down into a few 
mobs, 'g all hole' (a key) and dim door or relo back to you.  This is the key 
for Caldean.  Head back south and west, kill the 2 elite guards, and head up.  
You are back in the area with Shiira and Walcanar below you.  Unlock the door to 
the east and kill the night golem.  Nightgolem can load 'a night shadow 
bracelet' (+hp wristworn) and 'a bladeless sword' (nolore 2d9++ish lblade 
prime).  You can 'open door' to open a hidden door to the north.  Send an imm-
drain tank in and kill the wraith to the north.  In this room 'blow candle' to 
open the door to Caldean.  Caldean is a typical high level mage mob with a cat 
lacky.  Kill/bash the cat first and dualwield for Caldean who is nobash.  
Caldean can load 'a black robe of shadows' (+int bodyworn antigood/evilonly 
mage) and 'a shadow mask' (+int headworn mageonly).  He also loads a mummy claw 
that is the key to a jar (unlock jar) in his room.  A blood red scroll loads 
inside the jar (heal, stoneskin norent scroll).  'The sceptre of shadows' is a 
quest item/edrain wand.


**Tarsis Wastelands

The only exciting mob in the wastelands is the Ancient Hermit.  You need to spin 
out into the wastelands and find the up exit in the southern area.  Spin up into 
the path and follow it to the hermit.  East of the hermit is a dt so be careful 
and don't flee.  Hermit has a lightning bolt special that can do alot of damage 
so bash him down.  He loads tablets (charm monster and tornado), 'a lightning 
rod' (+2 6th slot held druid only that can storm call if you 'thrust rod'), and 
'an amber necklace' (autoinvis/detinvis neckworn druid only).  The brass quest 
also exists around the wastelands, but too many fools already know it and spam 
it.


**Ancient Keep  (**Note:  The entrance from Gargath’s Keep now involves a 
combination)

You can either enter this zone through the Mushroom Forest or though Gargath’s 
keep.  The best entrance is through Gargath’s, Mushroom Forest just sucks.  
After killing lord Gargath, make sure everyone is freshly flying, ‘open throne’ 
and follow path to the keeper.  Kill him, loot the key, and continue the path 
until the end.  Open the door and send the tank south.  This fight is maid maid 
valinda.  The chambermaids can load ‘a silk ribbon’ (+wis ring).  Open the door 
east and send tank, killing the 2 spellcasting butlers.  Once dead, heal up and 
have everyone move 1 east.  Once the lag wears, move the group 2 south, and send 
the tank down.  This fight is nomagic.  Kill the mirror creature and make sure 
no one flees.  Once it’s dead, move the group 1 south and heal up/fly everyone.  
Head 2 west and send the tank down.  Kill boy girl priest healer, bash priest 
and healer.  One of these mobs can load ‘a long chain and pentagram’ (evil only 
neckworn/held autofly) and a cure disease/gust clerical book.  Open the door 
east and wait for the 2 tracking guards and murder them.  Head 2 east, send tank 
up and kill the stabbing trainee mobs.  Loot the spinning dagger and ‘lean 
trophy’ to open an exit east.  Go east (nomagic) and ‘unlock/open amosnevine’.  
Send the tank north and fight Erebus.  He has a special to leave combat and stab 
a random group member, hard.  This is an extremely dangerous fight with casters 
and erebus must be bashed well.  Avenge faith prime can make this fight a 
cakewalk.  Eerebus can load ‘a black thieving plate’ (thief/barb +2con 
bodyworn), and ‘a black crested visor’ (unsure stats, detects headworn).  Go 
back to the mem room if necessary.  From there go east, all north if you have 
the key from prince Ibon in Gargath.  Kill the elite guards, unlock the 
door/lion and go north to kill King Starden.  He loads a few neat items I can’t 
think of off the top of my head.

East and north of the memroom is a closed door w.  Have the tank spam west while 
you open the door so that Vauld doesn’t track out into nomagic.  Move west and 
kill jaguar/vauld.  Vauld loads ‘a slender spiked war axe’ (rangeronly 2d9++ 
prime axe) and his jaguar loads ‘a diamond-studded jaguar collar’ (+health 
rangeronly).  Move a few south of Vauld to a closed door e.  Have your casters 
sit out if they like, the next fight is a nasty stabber in nomagic.  Make sure 
everyone is flying.  Move east, open doorway, and send tank east.  Evaro needs 
to be bashed, but also make sure someone rescues the tank if he gets low.  
Avenge faith primary makes this fight very easy also.  If Evaro flees, send a 
different tank in each time.  Evaro can load ‘a dark red dagger’ (3d4 encantable 
offhands), ‘a dark red visor’ (headworn infra/det invis), and ‘a dark red 
thieving plate’ (+dex bodyworn).  Once he’s dead, head all north of his room to 
find the Warrior Statue and Amity.  These two require a quest to fight and are 
very tough.  I haven’t spent time learning the quest.

South and 2 down from Amity is the crazy warlock and unfinished strong warrior.  
Kill warrior, bash warlock.  Warlock drops ‘a strange book’ (powerful strong 
warrior charmie).  Head back 2 up and north to mem if needed.  If you go all 
south from Amity to the NE room and go east, there is a furiously evil mage 
below you.  Send tank in and bash him.  He can load ‘a pair of magic shoes’ 
(saves_spell nosummon footwear).  2 east of him is an outlaw priest that can 
load ‘a set of prayer beads’ (+wis/int neckworn clerical).  The pit also has 
quiet healers and adventurers, adventurers can load ‘a spiked golden bracelet 
(or similar)’ (+dam wristworn).  I am unsure of the path to the pitmaster from 
the outlaw priest, so be careful.  Some of the pit rooms are nomagic.  The 
pitmaster is magic, and needs to be bashed.  He summons hordes of rats to attack 
random people so have your tank rescue well.  2 west and all north from 
pitmaster leads back to Amity.

From here, go south, west, and 2 north to fight a spellcaster.  He can load ‘a 
pair of spellcasting gloves’ (+10hp +int handworn).  This room spins.  You 
either move back into the Red Room, into a Closet, into a Completely Dark Room 
or into Lord Kaligath’s chambers.  If you spin into Completely Dark Room you are 
stuck in another spin.  You will randomly go into a cave that leads back to 
Vauld, get sucked into the pit, or get stuck in a 1man room with the Master of 
Darkness.  You can either swap to a mage and have him move you and poof back if 
master, or give a cleric the strange book and have him kill the master.  If you 
fall into the pit, the exit (pitmaster) is north, west.  The 2nd room is 
nomagic.  Repeat this process until you get to fight lord Kaligath.  He is 
nobash and reflect and casts like any high level mage mob.  Avenge head helps 
some.  He can drop ‘ancient armor of wizardry’ (+slot and other stats, mage 
bodyworn), ‘an ancient medallion’ (neckworn nocharm/nosummon), ‘a cryptic ring’ 
(+dam ringworm), and (rarely) ‘a tarnished wand’ (relevel wand).  Kaligath’s 
room is norecall, so move group back south when finished.


**The Lost Valley

This zone is beneath Garnet (on the 2nd level of the mountains, find a room with 
only an U exit and type ‘enter’).  Dinosaurs roam this area, just ignore them if 
you aren’t soloing.  Track/find the apeman runner, kill him, and get the jewel 
out of his pouch.  Move down when often and get in the bottom center of the 
valley.  There will be an altar and some more apemen here.  ‘Set/drop jewel 
bowl’ to activate it.  Now have everyone chant altar quickly (lighted person 
last) and have the tank move into the Stalker of the Mists.  Make sure people 
don’t move into the stalker if the tank is low hps, as the stalker does a lot of 
damage with his breath.  It is holdable.  Stalker can load druid tablets 
(plantwalk, pass without trace, temporal path).  Once looted, move group down, 
up, south to escape the mists.  Move into the next area and track down the 
shadow hunter.  Kill him/loot his key, and move to the north end of the valley.  
Hunter also loads ‘a shadow spear’ (2d9 flat nothief piercer prim).

Go through the door into the Caves of Despair.  There are a few dts here so be 
careful.  This is a maze where you need to get through without hitting the dts.  
A few mobs can load ‘some spirit armor’ (antigood –str autoinvis bodyworn).  I 
think the path is: all north, west some, north at the first junction, then north 
again at the 2nd.  Once out of the caves, head north to the gate of the citadel.  
From here head east, and north when you can’t go further east.  You’ll reach a 
scannable DT, but if you check exits it will be called ‘A Small Alcove’.  Go in, 
loot the key, and move back to the gate.  Once inside you have to kill a bunch 
of stoneskinned guardians.  They are no_stab, so either have a fire/iceshielded 
caster tank them or kick/frag them down.  Kill the first one, move west (maybe 
1n first) and then kill the 2nd guardian.  Head north from that one, and then 
east to the 3rd guardian.  East of here is the Shadowlord.  He is nobash 
reflect, and there is a red skull laying on the floor in his room.  Anyone 
touching the skull will die.  Shadowlord is a rank mob and loads ‘a magic pouch’ 
(a very large waistworn container).  Once dead, head back all west, all south, 
eastward, and then north some to the 4th guardian.  Kill it, go north to the 
deadend.  Do not touch the skull, but have everyone in your group type ‘up’.

This central room spins.  You need to get to the west room, go north to the end, 
loot key, and get back to the center.  Now you have to spin east and head 
further east until The Door of Imagination, unlock it and follow the path down.  
From ‘Gliding on the Wings of Darkness’ head south and east to find a down exit.  
Be memmed and ready.  Down is the last fight, kill order savant then silent.  
Both are reflect, savant bashable, silent observer nobash.  Both mobs are rank 
and observer is a nice 300k exp.  Observer can drop an unknown mage book, ‘some 
fur-trimmed boots’ (resist_cold +mvs), ‘a black pearl ring’ (unsure stats), ‘a 
gold bracelet’ (-10ac wristworn), ‘a sable cloak’ (antigood neckworn autoinvis), 
‘the amulet of Itark’ (neckworn +dex +str), and ‘a gold belt’ (antigood 
waistworn autofly).  The D exit leads back to the apeman shaman room.


**Citadel of Dracos

This zone is located southwest of palanthas through Slade’s forest.  This zone 
requires a thief (summonable).  Move west through the archieologist camp and 
kill the 3 mercenaries.  Move down and find the green shard on the ground.  Have 
everyone ‘get shard’ and they will be ported into the zone.  After getting 
shard, everyone needs to go 2 up and type ‘agree’.  Once this is done, make sure 
everyone is either mounted on a flying dragon or flying themselves.  When ready, 
move the group u,s,e,s,w,s,e to reach the citadel.  Have the tank go down, and 
have the rest of the group go down individually also once he is fighting.  Area 
and assisting owns the dreadwolves.  Once they’re dead, move the group west to 
the closed stairway.  Leave the group there, head all east, go up, 2 north, then 
run back 2 south, down, all west back to group and wait.  A gargoyle or 2 will 
track to you and smash open the door.  They are stoneskin so kick/frag them 
down.  

Inside there are black robed and reengage mages.  The black robes are friendly 
and no_hassle, so have your bashers bas the renegades.  Firstly from the NES 
room head all south and have 1 person go into the room east.  Once Gunther stuns 
move in, listen to him, and loot the key he gives you.  Move back west.  South 
and west of here are groups of 2 renegade mages and a powerful renegade.  These 
must all be killed.  Powerful renegades are nobash.  Kill 1 group then mem and 
repeat if your group isn’t strong enough to kill 2 in a row.  Gunther’s room is 
a mage mem room, a hidden room west of the NES is a cleric mem room, and a 
hidden room south of Gunther’s is a druid mem room.  The cleric mem room is also 
summonable and tellable.  Once these 2 groups are dead, move all north and kill 
the other 2 groups north and west of this room.  The powerful renegades load ‘a 
thin, light green robe’ (large aboutworn container, saves_spell).  Once all 4 
renegade groups are dead, go east from here and kill/bash Domack.  Domack loads 
‘a glass ring filled with mercury’ (-int +learn mageonly) and ‘a renegade’s 
robe’ (+int onbody mageonly).  Loot the key and mem.  Move back outside of the 
mage area and either north or south of the entrance.  

Unlock the door and send tank (2 door guards to kill at each entrance).  Inside 
this area there are 3-4 groups of 2/3 soldiers and a captain.  Kill soldiers, 
bash captains.  Hunt down and kill these groups, memming back in the mage’s area 
when necessary.  Head southward inside the keep and then east some to a room 
with closed doors E N and S.  Open the door east and kill the captain and 
general.  The general loads ‘a massive barbed sword’ (3d6 +disarm prime lblade), 
‘a pair of ebony inlaid armplates’ (+str armworn), ‘a suit of ebony inlaid 
platemail’ (female_only +2con bodyworn), and ‘a pair of ebony inlaid legplates’ 
(+dex legworn).  Get the key/open the door and head east.  There are 2 more 
soldier/captain groups in this area so be careful.  Hunt them down and head 
north (from east of general).  Follow path to the door guards and kill them.  
Mem up and make sure everyone has cloak of bravery.  South of this door is 
Charr, a nobash black dragon.  Beat him down until he’s low hp and he will flee 
east.  Mem if necessary and move east.  The next fight is extreme damage on the 
tank until Charr dies.  It is advised to heal every round until Charr dies.  
Crynus is the other mob here, and he hits very hard.  When he is low hps Crynus 
must be killed by magic.  Hitting him with melee weapons will only make him heal 
himself.  Have tanks spam ‘cast’ or remove weapons and let the casters finish 
him from bad.  Crynus loads ‘a treated steel rapier’ (3d6++ or 2d10++ lblade 
prime, very nice), ‘a pair of treated steel gauntlets’ (+2dam dkonly), ‘a pair 
of treated steel armplates’ (+dex armworn I believe), ‘a suit of treated steel 
platemail’ (not a clue, but nice), ‘a treated steel bracer’ (+hitroll wrist I 
believe).  He also loads a gown you will need.  Once looted, ‘lift skirt’ to 
reveal Ryka, then ‘display gown’.  She will talk and drop a rune you need.  Head 
back down, mem, and move back east of the general.  Move south, east to find a 
closed door n.  

North of here is a stabber mob that stabs insanely hard and hits nastily.  Tank 
needs to string open door n,n and you need to follow and heal him instantly.  
Door also needs to be closed asap to prevent mob from fleeing.  Once the 
ambassador is dead, have thief pick bookcase.  Open the bookcase and move east.  
Don’t touch the prisoner, but kill the torturer.  The prisoner can be one of 
three mobs:  A ranger, a cleric, or a paladin.  ‘Free (mob)’ will give you a 
staff and the prisoner’s gear will drop to the floor.  The ranger loads various 
‘ergothian hunting armor’ pieces that are nice and ‘an ergothian hunting bow’ 
which is very nice.  The paladin loads various ‘brushed steel’ armor 
pieces/sword.  The cleric loads ‘ancient elven’ armor pieces, including ‘an 
ancient elven breastplate’ (female_only +heal bodyworn [maybe antievil]).  Make 
sure you have the staff and head back out past the general and to the northern 
end of the keep.

You’ll reach another room with closed doors N E and S.  Have thief pick door 
east.  Move in and ‘wave rune portal’ to open it.  Have group all enter portal.  
This area is all spins with obliterating abominations.  Rescue casters instantly 
here.  Head east/northish until you reach a room with an U exit.  Go up, west, 
and ‘c ‘dispel magic’ doors’ to break the seal.  Mem full, unlock the doors, and 
go west to find Galan.  He won’t be agro until you ‘throw staff sphere’ or ‘toss 
staff sphere’.  Once agro, he is a mean nobash mage mob.  He also has group 
damage specials and sleep specials.  2 stoneskinned gargoyles will also come out 
of the walls to rescue him.  Keep people targeted on Galan and ignore gargoyles 
as well as possible.  Be sure no one touches the shard in the room or else they 
get ported out.  Galan loads a nice magebook (relo/mirror level likely), ‘the 
robe of Galan Dracos’ (+15hp +int bodyworn mageonly), ‘a palladium ring’ (globe 
charges), ‘anklets of woven palladium’ (legworn +dex canfly), ‘an amulet of the 
astral plane’ (secret keyworded [I don’t know] nomagic/held recall item), and ‘a 
runed hood’ (nv headworn).  A silver key also loads someplace in this room or 
near.  It unlocks the chest in the archieologist camp, which loads Honor’s Face 
(very nice nolore axe prime).



**Pax Tharkas

This is a very long and interesting zone.  This guide assumes you plan to do 
both Glymmer and Verminaard.  Unfortunately I haven’t had a chance to get back 
inside to completely figure out Feisal, so he won’t be included. You will need a 
‘medallion of Mishakal’ from Xak Tsaroth, so make a quick stop there before 
heading toward Pax.  Also I haven’t had to lead Pax in quite a while, so a few 
of the room directs might be off slightly.  Either way, you should be able to 
wing it easily from what I provide.

Begin first by going to the entrance of Qualinesti and going all south when 
able.  Once in A Crescent-Shaped Clearing ‘push bush’ to reveal a path south.  
Move south (once or twice) to find Gilthanas and Eben.  Ignore Eben and bow 
before Gilthanas.  Let him speak and allow a tic or two to pass until he 
shoulders his pack.  Say ‘You have my word’ and he will give you a glowing 
yellow gem.  Leave Qualinesti and get back out to the road, and move toward the 
regular Pax entrance.  Kill the guard, make sure everyone is always flying, and 
head along the path west.  The down exit is a no_fly dt.  You’ll run into groups 
of 2 hobgoblin soldiers and a hobgoblin captain.  When the captain dies a 
reflect worm will spawn.  These groups respawn occasionally so just deal with 
them.  Find A Path Along a Wall NS exits (I think that’s the room name) and 
‘push stone’ (or push wall perhaps) to reveal an east exit.  Make sure tanks are 
healed and send one 2east.  The fight is nomagic and involves a few guard dogs 
and some tracking guards.  Kill them and move up.  Kill the archers above you 
and the pitchman and his lackies to the west.  Back in the center room you want 
to buff up your best tank as much as possible and have him ‘knock door’.  He 
will get sucked into the closed room east and forced to fight a solo nomagic 
mob.  It’s not overly tough, but can cause problems if unprepared.  Once it 
dies, have the tank loot the key and come out.  Go in and loot the red vial from 
the chest that has appeared in the room.  Move back down and outside of the 
tower.  Head south and follow the path up the cliff.  Kill the tracking 
guards/wyverns when they come.  Find the wounded knight and either ‘drop vial’ 
‘present vial’ or ‘give vial self’ to help him.  He will give you a figurine you 
will need later.  Head back down the cliff and back toward the zone entrance.

Head east this time, killing the captain groups whenever necessary.  Follow the 
path to a NSW.  West of here is the draconian encampment that holds very hard 
stabbing sneaking guards.  These guards load ‘a grooved dagger’ (3d6 +2dam thief 
prime).  A few other items load in the camp that I haven’t seen load in ages.  
It’s dangerous and probably not worth the risk mid/late wipe.  Head southward 
until you reach a Tree.  If you look at the tree you will see there is a hole in 
it.  ‘Place figurine hole’ or ‘insert figurine hole’.  Then ‘say huma’ to open a 
passageway east.  Go further south until you find a room with a ladder.  Have 
the tank spam ‘climb ladder’ and once he goes, the rest of the group also.  Kill 
the archers and the commander.  He loads ‘an unstrung black bow’ that you need a 
high str person to string.  When done it becomes ‘a large black longbow’ (4d4 
3/3 bow that specs cone).  Continue southward until end, go east, and ‘place 
gemstone indentation’.  Head back north to the exit made at the tree.  Head down 
the path and follow it until you reach a dead end.  Have a good aligned person 
‘pray/kneel statue’, go n, and ‘spin/turn wheel’.  The wall to the east will 
open.  The next part of the zone is packed with knights of solamnia that agro 
evils.  Fight through them if necessary.  Follow the path eastward until you 
reach a 4-exit room called Center of the Action.  South of here is a path 
leading to a recup/mem room.  North leads to the crazy druid.  Mem up if needed 
and head north to the druid.  You want to have the tank enter/flee in order to 
get the beetle to appear.  Once done, send him back in and kill beetle/bash 
druid.  The beetle loads ‘a rhinoceros beetle carapace’ (+hp druid bodyworn).  
The druid loads ‘a faded green robe’ (about worn +2wis), ‘a bracelet of threaded 
roses’ (+7hp +int antievil druid wristworn), ‘a magical watering can’ 
(autorefilling drink container), and druid tablets (mass refresh, fire storm, 
and word of recall).  Once dead, head back up and mem in the memroom (druids can 
mem in druids room).

Back at Center of the Action head east and down.  Have group ‘enter waterfall’.  
Move north and an east or two (until NEW exit room).  North of here is a nomagic 
room with a ranger mob inside.  When aggroed, a tiger and bear will track in 
from the room east and molest the casters, so you need to leave a tank or two to 
guard them.  Have the tanks kill ranger/flee for heals.  Ranger loads ‘a gold 
inlaid mithril bow’ (very nice bow), and ‘a pair of fighting trousers’ (some odd 
statted ranger pants).  He probably loads other items I haven’t seen yet.  Once 
he is done, get rid of your fly only and become waterbreath.  Leave group to mem 
and move west (maybe 2) and south through a hidden exit.  Move down to a room 
with NESWU exits.  In each direction but up there is a statue depicting a period 
in Krynnish history.  You need to turn them in the right order.  The statues 
move when the zone repops.  You need to turn statues in this order:  Origins of 
Mankind, Kinslayer War, Vinas Solamnus, and the Kingpriest.  A down exit will 
appear in the central room.  Head back, round up your group, and bring them down 
through the exit.  Follow the path to the entrance of the Solamnic Camp.  Note 
the knights in this area will track to an evil char, so have area ready if you 
have some.

You need to roam the camp and kill every single mob here before doing Glymmer.  
The painter and the commander will yell, so do them last.  Once all the knights 
are dead, mem full and get ready.  Resist cold is a must.  Lein and Glymmer is 
an extremely tough fight.  Start by sending your tanks into Glymmer the Elf’s 
room, and have them kill him.  When he dies, Glymmer the Dragon and Lein will 
track in and attack.  Move the rest of the group in.  Everyone needs to 
kill/bash Lein first and then Glymmer.  You cannot flee until Lein is dead.  
Glymmer will area every single round so be prepared.  Lein drops ‘dragonrider 
gloves’ (very nice handworn I am unsure stats) and other various perma_maxed 
items.  Glymmer drops his skull (very nice unsure stats also), ‘a deep purple 
prism’ (+7th neckworn mageonly), druid tablets (enlarge and insect swarm) and ‘a 
small golden prayerbook’ (hideously rare—sunray and healing mist clerical book).  
Assuming you survive this fight, head all west of the camp and climb the hill 
back up to the mem/recup room.  Mem up and head back outside of the solamnic 
tunnels.

Head all south and east to the indentation, and head all north into the Sla-
Mori.  Move west (Do not touch Kith-kanan), north, west.  Rummage to receive a 
key.  Head back east, south, east.  Be careful here, there is a dt.  Once back 
at the ESW, head all east to a room with a closed door N.  In this room ‘raise 
medallion’.  Open the door and head in.  Move past the trash on the floor to the 
room with closed doors E and W.  There are 3-5 hidden caryatid columns in this 
room.  They are stoneskinned and assist, so use frags/kick/area.  Once they are 
dead, ‘pull chip’ to open an exit north, head in and go east.  Have everyone 
‘move/search debris’ and they will be moved inside of the fortress.  

From here you need to be as fast as possible without dying.  Move the group east 
and north some until an U exit.  Above here are groups of patrolling guards.  
You want to kill/bash the mages first and then assist the tank.  There are 2-4 
of these groups so be ready in case 2 come in at once.  Once groups are dead 
head east, down, and through the door south.  Head east to a closed door N and 
go through, be ready for another group or two.  Kill them and head up, north, 
and west.  Open the door S and kill dog, Zhultar.  Loot the key ring from the 
dog and any other items (unsure what loads here, always maxed).  Head back east, 
south, down, east, south to a closed E door.  ‘Select key’ to flip through the 
keyring to find the right one to unlock the door.  Open door and kill Rthanan, 
typical high lev mage mob.  He can load ‘a fiery-red ring’ (+7th slot evil mage 
only that does damage when worn) and probably other items I’m unaware of.  Head 
back west and all north, and go up into the tower.  Kill the guards there, move 
down and westward to the other town, and kill the dogs/guards there.  Head back 
down into the cellar.  Find the locked door that is east, north from the cellar 
entrance (from debris) and ‘select key’ until you can unlock the door.  Send 
tank in and kill ogre, commander.  Loot the key and head east, all s.  Use this 
key to unlock the door south.  This room has a deadly trapped coffin.  Have a 
thief disable and pick it.  Coffin loads ‘an inverted cross’ (evil only +dam 
neckworn I believe) and ‘a ring of pure darkness’ (evil only +heal ring).  Head 
north until you reach another locked door west, select the right key and go in 
and north.  Listen to Maritta and say ‘Yes’ to have her follow you.  Lead her 
outside into the courtyard and back toward Zhultar’s room.  Go past his room to 
the next locked S door, select the key, and go in.  This is best done alone, 
using say can awaken the dragon.  Maritta will tell you to wait here, so wait 
for her.  When she comes back, move into the next room and wait a sec.  She’ll 
produce a key and unlock the cell s.  Move in and ‘free children’.  They’ll 
follow you.  Wait a second or two, then move back out into the dragon.  The 
children will disappear.  Head back out, round up your group, and go back to the 
northeastern corner of the courtyard.  

If you were too slow to kill Zhultar you might have to wait until next sunrise 
or sunset before Verminaard returns home.  You’ll see a message when Verminaard 
returns, and also a message showing Ember dying to Matafleur.  Maritta will 
appear and follow you.  Have her sit here so she doesn’t get killed in the 
fight.  Move 1 west and prepare for Verminaard.  This can be a very long fight 
because Verm is limit damage, high heals, and nobash.  You want to begin by 
killing/bashing the draconian.  Hopefully Verm will waste most of his heals on 
the drac before it dies.  If he summons a Demon, get tanks to target it—it has 
low hps and Verm can heal it.  Once the draconian dies get everyone on 
Verminaard and wail away at him.  Have clerics use their heals, flee out, and 
mem as fast as they can.  Once the draconian is dead the fight isn’t overly 
deadly, but it can drag out past heal count.  The draconian captain loads ‘a 
skull flail’ (3d5++ prime bludgeon decapper), ‘a black insignia of the 
Dragonarmy’ (+con neckworn I believe), and ‘the robes of darkness’ (formerly 
evilonly nobash, unsure stats now).  Verminaard loads a thin metal rod (druid 
lightning storm tablet), an ancient tome (gate/animate/strength of one clerical 
book), and a few other items I have never seen load.  You can go west from Verm 
and select the right key to fight some wyverns.  They drop wyvern claws (decent 
misc offhands).  Head east of Verm to find the barracks.  Unlock the door to 
find the blacksmith.  He is a typical nomagic fight, not too tough.  Look the 
trunk from his corpse and look inside.  Trunk loads ‘a pair of unfinished 
mithril legplates’ (+20mvs +dam legworn).  Once everything you want to kill is 
dead, retrieve Maritta and move to the southeastern corner of the courtyard.  
Kill the guards at the prison entrance and go in and east, south.  Let her and 
Elistan talk.  When he finishes, have a cleric heal him.  This is a good exp 
quest for good align.  He used to drop ‘a small tattered prayerbook’ (word of 
recall/summon/negative plane protection/sunbolt clerical book), but it hasn’t 
loaded the last few times.  There is also a throne room north and 2 west of 
Zhultar.  The throne likely loads items I have never seen load.  Kith-Kanan also 
loads ‘Wyrmslayer’ (a nice prime lblade usable only by elves).


**Dragon Isle Chain (Irda)

This zone is hidden in the ocean north of Kalaman.  To find it, find the old 
elven fisherman and follow this path: 
 
n,n,w,n,e,n,n,e,n,n,w,w,w,w,s,s,e,n,n,e

Starting at A Strange Lagoon, the entire zone is no_summon and (I think) 
no_poof.  Head eastward inside, kill Jargin and his elementals.  He loads ‘a 
belt of seashells’ (waistworn saves_spell druid/mageish).  Follow path to the 
village gate and kill the human guards.  Head all east into the zone, stop at a 
closed tree north.  Go in and kill Veros, loot the key, go up, unlock/open 
hatch, and loot the trunk in the room above.  Take the leaves (if they loaded) 
to the alchemist (a few rooms further east and 1 north) and give them to 
yourself to receive ‘an orange potion’ (norent fastdecay AMS potion).  Head all 
east, and turn all north.  Go eastward through the door and kill the 
priests/Clagon.  Loot the key, mem, and head south.  Unlock the door and send a 
tank into the nomagic room to ‘rub pentagram (or similar)’.  Htoll will appear, 
and the tank should flee.  Close the door once it tracks into the room Wizinvis.  
Have the tank flee and instantly reenter to force Htoll visible.  Keep him 
bashed, and overbash/frag him hard when he hits bad.  He can escape and hide 
no_hassle if bashes fail or he dies too slow.  Htoll loads spellbooks (clair, 
ams, relo, monstersummoning, maybe mirror).

Once done with Htoll head back outside the temple and all south to the other end 
of the city.  Go through the gate and follow the path.  Fight off the blink 
dogs/irda scouts.  Kill the 2 giants at the castle gates, be careful of their 
special.  Once memmed, send the tank through the gate and wait for the horns to 
blow before going in.  Lots of trackers here, area and assisting rule.  Raylax 
is the only one who hits remotely hard.  Raylax loads ‘a light golden shield’ 
(autolight shield) and a key.  Take his key and move through the door at the 
north end of the courtyard.  Move all north.  2 west of this room is a 2man room 
with a hermit.  The hermit loads ‘a staff of meditation’ (+2int prime blud).  He 
is a dangerous fight.  The room is 2man nomagic and the hermit has a para 
special he likes to spam.  2 tanks need to kill him/disarm the staff as quickly 
as possible, fleeing for heals.  Once done with the hermit, head all east an 
north.  The next fight is very tough, so spell up before heading east into the 
nomagic room (quaffing the AMS potion if it loaded is a good idea for a healer).  
When ready, move east and say ‘Laniru’ to open the door.  This fight order is 
bard, terahio, lord.  The bard is reflect and needs to die as fast as possible.  
Bard has a hold/entangle special he enjoys spamming and fleeing is impossible 
while he’s alive.  Area works well.  Once the bard dies bash lord to stop him 
from casting.  Bard loads ‘an ancient tome’ (gate/animate/strength of one 
clerical book).  Terahio loads ‘a silver slicer’ (nice offhance lblade) and ‘a 
pair of barbed wire boots’ (+2dam footworn).  Lord Loklomin loads ‘a flowing 
robe of oak leaves’ (+8th slot druidonly aboutworn), ‘a silver chain of maple 
leaves’ (antievil/goodonly +2int autoinvis neckworn), and ‘a rod filled with 
multicolored gas’ (norent mageonly prism wand).  Loot the key from Loklomin and 
mem (hermit room is cleric mem).

Move to room south and west of Loklomin, open the wooden, and move west until 
you can move north. Head north until you can see The Barracks on exits.  Send 
the tank and let the lammasus track in.  Kill/bash them.  Move east, open the 
steel door, and kill Tarl south.  Tarl loads ‘a horned helmet’ (nv headworn) and 
the other key.  Loot his key and ‘combine key’ with the piece from Loklomin.  
Move north, west, and south some and find the up exit (not the tower).  Go up 
and east.  Behind a closed N door on 2nd floor is Vestiv, a nobash cleric mob 
that loads ‘a sky-blue robe etched with gold’ (+wis aboutworn).  All east on the 
2nd floor leads to a closed E door, behind with is a sun child and Mazuz.  Send 
the tank in and have him flee to make the sun child track out.  Afterword go in 
and kill Mazuz.  Mazuz loads ‘a helm composed of wispy blue flames’ (+dam 
rangeronly headworn) and some type of orange flaming potion (rentable haste 
potion).  Head back all west and down to first floor.  Head further down into 
the basement and go a few east until a closed door E.  Open it and kill/bash uzo 
joslen invoker, frag down the skinned golem.  Once their all dead ‘open 
tapestry’ go south, and loot the tuning fork.  Head back west and follow the 
path to the dead end.  ‘Tune fork’ to shatter the wall.  Move further to the 
vault.  Unlock it with the combined key.  Vault loads ‘a black demon skull’ 
(3wis evil cleric only headworn det invis), ‘a black belt with a skull buckle 
(+str con or dam I can’t remember and a big container for evil waistworn), ‘an 
ancient jade ring’ (+8th slot mageonly ring), ‘a serpentine ring’ (+bludgeon 
skill), ‘a bone-twined leather breastplate’ (antineutral bodyworn +heal), and a 
possible druid tablet I am unsure of.  A book also loads here that can be taken 
back to the city (need to kill the mage guildmaster for a key) and turned in to 
an imp for good exp for evils.  The phoenix east of the vault spawns a tougher 
one each time you kill it until ‘an ancient phoenix’ which is nobash.  It loads 
‘a belt inlaid with fiery opals’ (casterish immune_heat waistworn) and ‘an egg 
of the phoenix’ (charmie creation item).


**Celestial Valley

This zone is divided into a Good side and an Evil side.  It’s impossible to do 
all of both sides in a single run.  It is required (usually) that part of the 
Good side be done in order to do the Evil side.

Good side:

Start by finding the zone through the Eastern Dreadwoods west of dwarf keep.  At 
the young knight type ‘agree’ to receive the horn.  Fight through the forest and 
be sure to kill the Cambion and his group, he loads ‘a long black steel 
scimitar’ (3d5 offy lblade).  Move to the northeastern end of the forest and 
follow the path.  ‘Blow horn’ at the dead end to open the path.  Have a good 
aligned char move in and listen to the cleric’s speech.  After the cleric casts 
his spell, have the good char move 1 north past him.  Move the rest of the group 
in and kill the cleric.  Have the goodie char inside keep go 1 east and ‘pull 
lever’ to reopen the portcullis.  Move in and west to kill Kenny the guard.  
Loot his key, move east, unlock door n.  Have some tanks spamming bash mage and 
bash squire as you move the group north into them.  Hug the eastern wall until 
you reach a room with SW exits and ‘open doorway’ to open a door east.  Move in 
and kill Vrinal.  His room is cleric_magic_only and he has a hold person area 
special.  He loads ‘a sunburst long sword’ (2d7++ offy lblade) and ‘a suit of 
flexible red dragonscale armor’ (bodyworn +dex/+hr armor).  Loot his half of the 
key and mem.  Move back up, hug the east wall again until you see an up exit, 
then go all west and 2 up.  Send tank north and kick/area/frag down the 2 suits 
of armor.  In the room south of the armor you can ‘touch butt’ to open a secret 
door east.  Go east, north and check the table for ‘a teal potion’ (rentable 
heal potion) and ‘a teal cloak’ (neckworn autoinvis).  Go north and up of the 
armor and kill Bors, who loads ‘a honed dwarven battleaxe’ (3d6 3/3 axe prime), 
‘a sterling cuff’ (+str wristworn antievil [I think]), and ‘a pair of spiked 
sterling gauntlets’ (+1hr/+1dam handworn antievil).  Head back down, all south, 
1 down, and all north.  Send 3 tanks and a healer west to kill the archer.  Once 
it’s dead ‘push green’ to open a secret passage.  

The next few rooms are blocking, so get everyone back outside.  Send the tank 
west, north, north first then a healer.  Have the rest of the group move in 
afterword.  Kill the shade, and then have everyone move up (same order as they 
entered this room).  Have everyone kill/bash mage mage and dualwield for Kinin.  
They are all % reflect.  Kinin loads ‘an embroidered white robe’ (+int bodyworn 
mageonly), ‘an azure-symboled white hood’ (nolore +7th slot mageonly headworn), 
and ‘a purple glass wand’ (very fast decay cloudkill wand).  Loot the 2nd half 
of the emerald get and ‘combine key’ them together.  Have group head back down 
and out through the blocking rooms.  Mem if necessary and head back all south, 
up, all north and unlock the hatch above Bors.  Follow the path to Than.  Than 
hits hard, has a target special, and has a high damage impailing special at low 
hp.  Bashes help immensely.  Than loads ‘a pair of stitched dueling gloves’ 
(+disarm +parry I believe), ‘a flexible red dragonscale bracer’ (+hr wristworn), 
‘a fine dueling rapier’ (nolore nice prime lblade), and a key you’ll need.  Grab 
the key and head back down to the bottom level.  Mem if necessary and head all 
east to the other tower and move up to the top.  Head north, kill the 2 keep 
guards, and unlock the hatch.  Kill the sea elf ranger at the top of the steps.  
He hits very hard but has no specials.  Sea elf ranger loads ‘a sea elf 
headband’ (ranger/thief detinvis infra headworn), ‘a flexible glassteel sabre’ 
(2d7/2d8 offhand lblade), and ‘a flexible red dragonscale sleeves’ (+dex +hr 
armworn).  Loot his key and mem fully.

The next fight (ranger, cleric, druid) is long and can be dangerous.  The best 
way to handle it is to have everyone kill the druid and bash the cleric.  The 
tank needs to be awake and able to rescue quickly when the ranger targets or 
rescues the druid.  Have clerics run back down to the mem room and mem what they 
can during the battle.  Once the druid dies, have everyone kill the ranger and 
bash the cleric.  The ranger hits pretty hard, but without the druid the fight 
is much easier.  The druid loads ‘a long golden cloak’ (aboutworn canfly), ‘a 
runed topaz bracelet’ (antievil nolore +int +7th slot druid only wristworn), and 
‘a steel-shod oaken club’ (keyworded prime bludgeon druidonly nolore).  The 
cleric loads ‘a moonstone ring’ (ringworn +wis).  The ranger loads ‘a small 
feathered pendant’ (autofly neckworn) and a ring I cannot remember but is 
nolore.  Loot the key from the cleric, mem full, and prepare for the planetar.  
Planetar hits randomly weakly or extremely hard, has a high damage area attack 
he uses if not bashed, and a very deadly single-target special.  Heal the group 
well and keep the tank above bad and it shouldn’t be overly tough.  Planetar 
loads ‘a massive sword of divine wrath’ (nolore goodonly 2handed sword that hits 
randomly for special damage), ‘a pair of huge white wings’ (aboutworn canfly), 
and ‘a blue silken turban’ (+3 3rd circle good mage only headworn).

Once the planetar dies, a demon shows up, drops some coins, and tells you to 
leave.  The last part of the goodie side is very dangerous and requires either a 
lot of luck or a huge amount of area.  Mem full and slowly move down toward the 
bottom level.  Note that all the mobs scantrack, and there are about 10-12 of 
them.  They all massacre or harder and half of them are high level mage mobs 
(prism/tent/stun).  The trick is to either scantrack them solo and kill them one 
by one or jump whole groups and hose them down with area.  The leader demon hits 
harder and casts more often than the weaker ones.  The leader can load ‘a pair 
of demon claw gauntlets’ (evil only +dam handworn) and ‘an orb of black flames’ 
(antigood mage only +12-15hp imm_edrain held).  Once the planetar is dead, the 
entrance to the evil side of the zone is closed.

Evil side:

The zone is the same up until Kinin.  If Bors is naked he can be skipped to just 
kill Kinin and get the ‘purple glass wand’.  Make sure Kinin dies fast enough so 
he doesn’t waste all the charges on it.  Don’t take too long at this point, you 
need the wand and it decays quickly.  Move back out of the keep and into the 
forest.  Head all south to the southeastern corner and fight through the bats in 
the cave.  The end of the cave has the Arch to the evil side.  Have the tank 
enter the arch first (he will be degrouped) and have everyone else follow.  The 
entrance room is nomagic and has 2 massacring flesh golems, kill them to receive 
the key for the door.  Head south until there is a branch to the east.  Buff up 
your best tank and send him east (he will be locked in a nomagic room) and have 
him kill the guard.  It’s not overly difficult and he can load ‘a blackened 
spiked bracer’ (tankonly –dex autoinvis wristworn).  Have him loot the keys and 
come back out to the group.  Move south and kill 2 more flesh golems and unlock 
the S door.  Move a room south (maybe 2 rooms) and ‘push wall’ to reveal a 
secret exit to the east.  Head all east (make sure tank is immdrain) and kill 
the fiend south.  It’s a stabber mob that will flee, so be sure to bash it.  
Other than the key, it can load ‘a wickedly barbed shortsword’ (3d5++ antigood 
thief stabber).  Head back outside the secret wall, make sure everyone is 
flying, and move all south.  Send a tank down and let most of the dretches track 
in to him.  They are weak and die quickly but there is upwards of 15-20 of them.  
Fight them off and head to the southeast corner.  

Unlock the door, leave your group behind, and move south just far enough (no 
more than 2 rooms) to find the hidden rabbit.  Do not go into the room beyond 
the rabbit yet, you will die.  Use the wand to cloudkill and wait until you hear 
15 or so death cries from the south (the rabbit will die too).  Wait for the 
cloudkill to disperse (or gust) and go get your group.  Move all south and send 
the tank east.  Kill the 2 insects and piscoloth (he loads a norent mageonly 
prism wand), loot his key, and have the tank step a few rooms east until the 
succubus.  She has ‘her arm’ that is a tentacle wand she enjoys spamming if not 
overbashed.  She can drop ‘a pair of succubus wings’ (antigood female_only 
bodyworn canfly).  Mem full.  The next few rooms have a bunch of scantracking 
bone golems that all doublemass/annih.  Rangers beat the hell out of them and 
area helps also.  Make sure your melees are all on the same one.  Fight through, 
youll know the end when you see 4 golems in the same room that don’t scan.  Kill 
them, mem if necessary, and then move north to kill Khane.  He loads ‘a wolf 
tooth bracelet’ (wristworn +str +hr) and ‘a broad bladed twohanded sword’ 
(nolore nice damage twohanded sword that has a special to make the wielder drunk 
[blooddrinker]).  Mem full for the next part.  North of Khane are 4-5 stone 
golems which you need to stab/kick/frag/area down.  Usually can avoid having 
more than 3 in a room at once, but they do scantrack.  Make sure you’ve killed 
them all (don’t touch the rust monster) and have your group mem.  Run back to 
Khane alone, then move south and west and ‘clear debris’.  Go into the uncovered 
room and ‘g all shelf’ to receive a ‘creamy black potion’ (norent fastdecay 
enlarge) and ‘a thin copper wand’ (charm monster wand).  Move back south, east, 
north some, east, north, west to find a cute little rust monster.  Use the 
copper wand to charm him, and lead him to the northeast corner of the cave.  It 
will eat the iron golem and leave a key.  Round up your group and head through 
the door.

A room or two later you’ll find the next fight, Velchior.  He hits hard and has 
an extremely high damage bash.  Anyone casting on him will be bashed and take 
150-200 damage, so let your melee do the work.  Heal the tank early.  Velchior 
can load ‘a carved dragon claw ring’ (+dam ringworn), ‘a dragon tooth necklace’ 
(nolore like +2hr +health neckworn), and ‘a carved dragon bone breastplate’ 
(+2str bodyworn).  Continue on and you’ll find another room with a black robed 
apprentice and another arch.  Kill/bash the apprentice and have your group all 
enter arch and get reformed.  From here you can reach Vshrinal by moving 
u,n,w,w.  There are wandering trash mobs and also big groups of them lead by 
hezrou demons.  Using mass invis will work well to avoid the manes, but the 
hezrou’s do see invis.  Hezrous can load ‘a long hezrou spine’ (3d5++ offhand 
piercer).  Reach Vshrinal and listen to his speech.  Once done, head w,d and 
send tank down again to fight the glabrezu.  Kill him and lood his head and take 
it back to Vshrinal.  There is also a Babau either 2 west of Vshrinal or w,d,w 
of him.  Babau can load ‘a long babau horn’ (headworn +2con).  Vshrinal himself 
is killable but extremely dangerous.  He hits excessively hard, has an area 
affect special that either confuses or stuns, and a targeted special that does 
insane damage and paralyzes.  He loads ‘an ornate twin-bladed battle axe’ 
(nolore 5d5++ decapper 2handed axe) and ‘the gauntlets of Abyssal might’ 
(antigood or evilonly 3dam handworn).  Head e,e,s,d from Vshrinal to return to 
the arch.  Mem full and have your casters get full damage spells.  When you are 
ready, you’ll have tank enter the arch first and others follow/get regrouped 
immedeatly after.  The first mob is the archmage.  He likes to cast a lot, and 
is % reflect.  He needs to be bashed to conserve heals for the 2nd fight.  The 
mage can load ‘a pair of dark blue satin boots’ (nolore bash_mod footworn), a 
few other items I’ve never gotten to see, and a high level mage book rumored to 
be mirror/prism level.  When the archmage dies, you have 1.5 tics before the 
lich will appear.  The obsidian lich is nobash and perma stoneskinned.  Have 
your casters frag him down and tanks kick/charge.  The lich loads ‘an obsidian 
circlet’ (nv headworn) and other nice items I cannot remember.


**Qualinesti

Quali is located west of the goblin camp.  You need to find a room with only EW 
exits and ‘push bush’ to open a hidden path south.  Follow the path west until a 
NE room.  Move south to enter the zone.

In the southwestern portion of the forest is the shrine guard and the 
shrinekeeper.  The shrine guard can load ‘a mithril bracelet’ (antievil +dam 
wristworn) and ‘an elven pike’ (3d6 1/1 prime polearm antievil).  The 
shrinekeeper might actually load these items, but I can’t remember offhand.  The 
shrinekeeper is a nomagic room that is agro to anyone non-good aligned.

If you head west from the entrance and north when possible you’ll move towards 
the city.  When you reac the Cliff’s Edge (north is a dt, be careful), head east 
first.  Follow the path and kill the posse of elves patrolling it.  Loot the key 
from the field marshall.  He also loads ‘a helm of clan oakleaf’ (infra 
headworn).  Move to the end of the path and through the gate, killing anything 
agro.  Eventually you’ll scan ‘a tall purple elf’.  These are the elven heralds, 
the most annoying part of the zone.  If they shout, quite a few bronze dragons 
and elven high guardians will become agro and track you around the zone.  The 
trick to killing the heralds is to move your group in all together, have your 
tanks spam bash on them, your casters silence and then frag.  Kill this one and 
continue south until you reach a closed gate south with a key on the floor.  
Loot the key, but this gate is pickonly.  Head back out and around to the Cliff.  
Head west this time and kill the guard and the griffons.  Loot the key from the 
guard, move west, kill the guard dog, and loot its key.  Move into the city and 
follow the path to the next herald.  Kill it the same way, and unlock/go through 
the locked portcullis to the east.  Close these doors behind you so the 
guardians don’t track later if you annoy a shouter.  Once you reach a room with 
2 closed exits N and E, open the gate E and kill another hearld.  From here, you 
can head north to Lord Nam’s house and kill him for a possible druid tablet 
(call lightning, icestorm, cure critical), head east toward Porthois, Alhanna, 
and the Gazer, or south toward the platinum dragon.  The most efficient way to 
do this zone is to go east first, so head that way.  Be scanning for heralds and 
also elven servants.  The servants have low hps but they will also yell.  Elven 
citizens yell as well, but they aren’t agro and should be ignored.

Once you reach a closed gate to the east, go through it and head south.  Follow 
the rooms and kill the K’lael agro guard on the eastern side.  1 room north of 
this guard is an NS room.  Type ‘pluck petal’ to open an exit to the east.  Head 
east and up into the tower.  W,n,w from the landing is a memroom for everyone.  
From the memroom go e,u and scan to see Alhanna and Porthois to the south.  You 
can kill the royal guards that wander the floor if you are afraid they’ll move 
in on the big fight.  For this fight, have everyone kill marshall, alhanna, 
porthios.  Bashing Alhanna helps stop her from healing.  Porthios has a heal or 
two he might use on himself, but usually he doesn’t bother for some reason.  
Alhanna can load ‘a ceremonial elven slingstaff’ (casteronly 4d4 3/3 misc 
prime), ‘an emerald crest’ (2int/2wis headworn), and ‘a pair of regal elven 
gauntlets’ (cleric only autoinvis handworn).  Porthios can load ‘a great elven 
axe’ (3d6 2/2 prime axe) and ‘a suit of regal platemail’ (+dam bodyworn).  Once 
they’re dead, loot the key from porthios and unlock/loot the throne.  His throne 
can load ‘a hooded black chasuble’ (evil only +heal bodyworn), ‘the starjewel’ 
(held immune_fire reverse cold resist), and ‘a small tattered prayerbook’ 
(summon/word of recall/sunbolt/negative plane protection clerical book).  If you 
wish to fight the gazer, ‘shine moon’ in the throneroom to open up an exit east.  
The gazer is east, up, west from this room, and it there is a DT to the west of 
it.  Cloak of bravery is essential.  The gazer is nobash and reflect.  I never 
took the time to figure out the quest, but ‘a gazer’s eye’ is no longer nobash, 
but it is awareness and other neat things.

Head back outside the tower to the 3way junction just before the outer gate.  Go 
north to kill lord Nam (nothing notable about this fight) if you wish, and then 
come back and go all south.  Go through the door, kill/bash the magic-user, and 
loot his key.  Head east, up, 2 north, and send tank up to fight an elven lord 
and noblewoman.  The untrapped chest in the room can load ‘a ceremonial elven 
cloak’ (aboutworn +dex container rangeronly).  The elven lord can load ‘a great 
mithril bow’ (4d5++ bow).  Once their dead head d,s,w and ‘unlock/open web’.  
Move in, and have your group all type ‘break egg’.  Now ‘touch gate’ to open it, 
move west and north to fight the granite golem.  It can drop ‘a granite shield’ 
(+5hp shieldworn).  Type ‘push gemstone’ to open an exit east, head that way and 
type ‘rub neck’ at the room with the fountain and go west.  Now have a few group 
members (not leader or maintank) ‘bend bars’ to open a doorway north, and send 
the tank in.  There are 2 stabbing dreadguards here that can load ‘the ancient 
sleeves of stealth’ (+dex +dam armworn dex/thief).  Move north to the mem room 
and mem full.  

North of this room is the enormous platinum dragon.  This is usually a pretty 
easy fight but can get dangerous without resists or if saves lose.  Make sure to 
be resist electricitied, and have your tank type ‘cast’ when he enters the room 
to summon the 2 elves.  The kill order here is kill/bash elf elf and then 
dualwield for the dragon.  The dragon can load ‘a vicious black dagger’ (3d5++ 
“decapper” dagger prime thiefish), ‘a platinum gilt helm’ (goodonly +heal 
headworn), ‘a dragonshelm’ (+2con headworn), ‘a pair of platinum gilt boots’ 
(+dex +con footwear I believe), ‘a thin metal rod’ (lightning storm druid 
tablet), and ‘an ivory staff’ (sacred ward/darkness/restoration/steelskin 
clerical book).  He also loads ‘an auburn vial’ (norent autodeath potion which I 
believe is involved in the gazer’s eye quest).  You can ‘climb rubble’ and move 
through a tunnel and ‘push wall’ to get back to the rest of the zone if you have 
reason to.

**Lunitari

This zone is located in the sky (duhh) and you need to find Stutts (northeast of 
Lemish in the mountains) and ‘board ship’.  Your group will be transported into 
his ship on tic and it takes 2 tics to reach Luni.

From the landing zone head all south and west until you find a path further 
south.  Fight off the worms/tigers in your path.  Follow the highway until you 
come across an eastern exit, and move that way.  At the Fungus Orchard, head 
south and east until you find a closed gate.  Type ‘charge gate’ twice, the 
first time will summon 2 trees to kill and the second will open it.  Move south 
a few into the village (fighting off the treefolk) and go west when you can.  
Listen to the One, the Treefolk’s riddle and ‘say sky’.  He will give you a key 
and attack.  Move all east and north until a closed door to the west.  Unlock it 
and follow the path to a dead end.  ‘Get all rope’ ‘unlock rotting.chest’ loot 
the rotting chest and type ‘twiddle’ and loot the key that appears on the floor.  
Move back out past the door and all south.  Unlock the southern door, go in, and 
go west to the dead end.  Type ‘pull door’ and then ‘push wall’ to open the path 
west, and follow that direction until the end.  Here type ‘pull two’, ‘pull 
three’, and then ‘pull one’ and loot the key from the ground.  Head back out 
toward the entrance of the village, except unlock and go through the closed E 
door before the exit.  After going through the door type ‘open trapdoor’ and 
‘get all trapdoor’ to get a note and some string.  ‘Combine string hook’ to make 
a little fishing thing and hold on to it for now.  

-----
(Note this part leads to the King of Lunitari, which is generally not worth 
doing on a full group.  If you don’t care about the king, skip down below the 
next set of dashes) Continue east until an NSW and have your tanks move south 
into the smoky rooms.  It will be nomagic and they’ll take damage but not a lot.  
Have them find the smoke elemental, kill it, and loot the stuff it drops.  When 
it’s dead, they can keep moving north until they get back to the group.  Head 
north, unlocking whatever doors lie in your path, and find Seven, of the 
Treefolk.  (Sorry for not remember directions specifically here, I usually wing 
the King).  Say ‘lunitari will blow your mind’ and he will give you a key and 
attack.  Note that Seven can also load ‘a crimson glass bracelet’ (easy frag 
+dam wristworn).  Take his key and head southward, unlocking and going through 
whatever doors you can.  DO NOT CLIMB THE WALL TO VALIANCE.  There is no way out 
of that room short of figuring out his hideous riddle, which I can’t remember 
for the life of me.  Continue south and kill the 2 trees guarding the kings 
door.  Loot their key, mem if necessary, and go attack the king.  The fight is 
kill tree tree king, and then kill/bash the elite ogre that poofs in after he 
dies.  The king loads ‘a dusty tan tunic’ (bodyworn autoinvis), ‘a pair of cut-
off pants’ (+mvs legworn), ‘a well-worn battle club’ (4d6++ 2handed bludgeon), 
and ‘a pointy hat (or some variation)’ (+int headworn).

-----
Head back out past the entrance of the village and back onto the highway.  Head 
northward until you reach the plain of stones, and wander northeast until you 
find a room in which you stub your toe on a big rock.  Here type ‘use string 
hole’ to fish another key out of the ground.  Now head all west and north to the 
northwestern corner of the planes.  Here starts the lunitarian hills, in which 
each room has a plant that annoyingly blocks your movement.  You can spam the 
direction to get past eventually.  There are 2 ways to get through this part: 
kill everything or mass invis and spam through.  The ogre mages and chieftain do 
not see invis, but the ogre magi priest does.  The priest (scannable as wearing 
a holy symbol) can load ‘a runed crimson skull staff’ (held autofly light) and 
‘a wicked chain and dagger’ (3d4++ offhand +style sblade).  The chieftain loads 
‘dual crimson gauntlets of ogre power’ (trash item nolore no found benefit).  If 
you kill the chieftain, 2 elite ogre mages poof in and need to be bashed.  
However you decide to get through, follow the path west until you reach an SWU 
junction.  South is the quickest way to the boulder, so I’d recommend going that 
way.   Eventually you’ll find a room with SU exits with a boulder that you can 
look at.  Get your group here and have a few of them ‘move/roll boulder’ and 
move north inside.  Unlock the door and kill the imp that flies in.  Move north 
and down and mem full and listen to the chatter of the battle group.

There are a few ways to do this fight.  If you have a good number of heals (3 
clerics is a good idea here) and some nice area, you can fight them all at once.  
If you do this, the best method is to have everyone kill: mage druid cleric 
warrior while bashing the cleric.  Have your casters either area or focus damage 
on the mage and then the druid.  The thief can be blinded relatively easily and 
rompe is just an annoyance who will die eventually.  The 2nd method of doing 
this fight waits until the group breaks up and heads to their rooms.  Have a 
tank, a cleric, and your casters move east into the mage’s room as soon as you 
engage the warrior.  You also want another tank to go down and keep the druid 
occupied.  Have the mage group kill the mage, then move west and down and kill 
the druid, then come back into the main room to kill the cleric and then the 
warrior.  If you have a basher left over in the warrior room, have him bash the 
cleric when it arrives.  This fight is fun and spammy but can get chaotic and 
dangerous if it’s not done quickly.  The cleric loads ‘a golden battle ankh’ 
(antievil held/neckworn +heal) and ‘a small golden prayerbook’ (sunray/healing 
mist clerical book).  The warrior loads ‘a suit of golden dragonscale plate’ 
(+str imm_drain bodyworn) and ‘a slick blade’ (3d5++ +age offhand lblade).  The 
mage can load ‘a book of battle magic’ (+10/15 learn held mageonly) and also a 
magebook (colorspray/haste/relo level).  The thief can load ‘a runed knife of 
crimson adamantite’ (2d9++ prime sblade.  A fake one also loads but will vanish 
quickly).  The dark knight can load ‘a deadly serrated battle axe’ (nolore 
decent damage decapper 2handed axe antigood).  Check the beds in the rooms of 
each group member for similar loads also.  Have casters mem in the room closest 
to their respective class.  At some point go into the mage’s room and type ‘g 
all shadow(s)’ to get a chest.  Get the ball of levitation from the chest.

Head back outside the boulder and either fight through again or invis past the 
repopped plants back to the SWU and up back out into the Plane of Stones.  Head 
southeast back to the highway and keep going south past the village turnoff this 
time.  You’ll end up at more plants, but there are only a few to spam through.  
When through the plants you’ll arrive at the base of an obelisk with exits SUD.  
Make sure everyone is flying and head up to kill the brass dragon, Cupelix (he 
is agro to evil).  He is nobash, holy, and has a heat blast area breath attack, 
but otherwise not incredibly dangerous.  Cupelix can load ‘a brass dragonscale 
shield’ (+con shield) and ‘a brass dragonscale battle orb’ (autoinvis +9th slot 
held mageonly).  He probably loads a few other items I can’t remember.  When 
he’s dead, move the group back down below him to mem, and head alone 2 up.  Type 
‘rub ball’ to open an exit further up and move in. Do not drop the ball of 
levitation yet. Loot the coins and type ‘g all stack’ and ‘get all pile’.  This 
room loads ‘the medallion of the keeper’ (quest item needed in a minute), ‘a 
tall candlestand’ (rentable autofly wand with a charge or two), ‘a scroll of 
improved transport’ (rentable lev 30 invis, fly, refresh scroll), ‘a gilded-gold 
scroll’ (relevel scroll), and a magebook (ams/relo/haste level).

Head back down to the group and move down below them (alone again).  At the 
bottom of the shaft type ‘g debris’ and ‘use debris spikes’ to make it safe to 
pass the spikes north of you.  Round up your group and head all north to the 
massive gnome.  The massive gnome is a very dangerous fight, but it is 
bypassable by typing ‘present keeper.medallion gnome’.  The gnome hits for 400-
600 damage a round with vicious oblits.  To kill it, you need to make sure your 
casters do not assist and your healers heal every single round.  If you can’t 
kill it outright without memming, just keep the clerics from engaging with magic 
and they can keep the tanks alive while they flee to remem.  Make sure your tank 
has at the very least 650hp if not 700+hp for this.  The gnome can load ‘a 
fulgurite plate’ (imm_heat or imm_elec, one of these I’m unsure), ‘a ring of 
gnomish power’ (gnome only +3str ring), ‘a pair of fulgurite sleeves’ (no clue 
what these are but nice), and ‘a fragile fulgurite helmet’ (saves_breath norent 
headworn that loads if you kill gnome or not).  Once the gnome is dead or sent 
away, be sure you are fully memmed and head north and up to the closed door.  
‘Say open’ to open the door.

The next fight can either be laughable or insanely dangerous.  The Avatar of 
Lunitari is probably the most unpredictable fight in the game.  Moving into the 
room causes the leader to be forcebolted. There are 3 forms of the avatar:  the 
first one is a simple bashable reflect mob to beat down.  The 2nd avatar splits 
into a black and a white avatar, in which you should have your tanks ‘kill black 
and bash white’.  When either white or black dies, the 3rd avatar will appear.  
This avatar is nobash and high % reflect, so have your tanks dualwield and 
casters area.  It has a lightning bolt breath similar to the magespell except 
area affect, and it casts high level mage spells at a 35+ level.  Stuns from it 
last an insanely long time, its prisms can fire off twice instead of once and 
hit each person with 3 rays.  It also makes 11 images when it mirrors and fires 
15-20 magic missiles.  Shielding the tank is a good idea.  Sometimes it just 
doesn’t seem to cast, other times it just goes nuts.  Ride out the area and keep 
people healed to win.  Avatar can load ‘a crimson cloak inlaid with marble’ 
(+int neck/about worn neutral only mageonly I believe), ‘a crimson shawl inlaid 
with threads of marble’ (nolore sense life +int headworn neutral mage only), and 
‘a ruby red dart’ (quest item you’ll need in a minute).  Have everyone but a 
summoner recall (have him run back to the obelisk down of Cupelix) and ‘say it 
is only an illusion’ to open the wall north.  North is a norent nodrop sphere 
with a keyword to clair and a dusty chest (chest is only there if I book is 
loaded inside of it).  Move south, down, and south to The Entrance Chamber.  
From here (make sure you have the dart and the ball of levitation) type ‘enter 
rock’ and then go down into the crimson winds.  Go north and ‘say it is only an 
illusion’ to be teleported before Lunitari.  ‘Kneel lunitari’ to be recalled, 
stunned, and given the key to the chest, ‘a crimson sphere medallion of lunitar’ 
(norent minor_limit_damage neckworn), ‘a crimson potion’ (norent fireshield), 
and ‘a crimson splotched egg’ (beast of creation summoning item).  Relo/get 
summoned back to the obelisk and go unlock/loot the book from the chest.


**High Clerist’s Tower

Located just south of Palanthas and west of the Tollhouse.  Start by killing the 
templars outside the north or south portcullis and loot the keys.  These 
templars can also load ‘a solamnic two-handed sword’ (4d6 2handed swords 
antievil).  Move into the tower, note that the knights inside will be agro to 
evil.  Find the knight patrol groups and kill them, checking their corpses for 
the inner tower key.  There are 2 groups and only 1 key loads, so just kill the 
other group if the first one doesn’t load it.  Find the closed door W on the 
eastern side and unlock/go in and kill the 2 guards at the bottom of the stairs.  
Head up, 3 north, and into the dining room to the west.  Knights will track to 
and attack evil chars in the hallway.  Once in the dining room ‘push red.button’ 
to open an exit north.  Make sure people are flying and no one uses say until 
out of the elevator.  Move in, ‘push button’, and ‘say 3’.  Send tank north into 
the stabber, Sirak.  He can breathe acid but is para/holdable.  Sirak loads ‘a 
hooked blood dagger’ (nolore nice sblade offy with a damage special).  From here 
you can go west to kill Thomas, north and west to kill Gaston (clear/clean desk 
in his room to find one of the combo #’s), and 2 north west to kill Lilliana.  
Lilli loads a key you’ll need and ‘dual anklets of gold’ (legworn canfly).  Loot 
her key and go east, up, south, and unlock/move through the west door.  Next 
fight is lady, mark.  Lady can load ‘a black silk teddy’ (bodyworn imm_drain) 
and ‘an azure silken robe’ (aboutworn nocharm_nosummon).  Mark loads another 
key.  Loot it and head north and 2 east and south to fight Persion (he is holy).  
He can load ‘a sterling bracer’ (goodonly +hr wrist), ‘a sterling breastplate’ 
(goodonly 2hr nocharm bodyworn), and another key.  Loot the key and go north, 
west, south and unlock Michael’s door.  Mem full.

This fight is best done by killing elf, slate, Michael.  Bashing elf keeps her 
from casting, Michael himself is nobash.  Michael likes to rescue slate and the 
elf so be sure your tank is ready.  The elf loads ‘the staff of the Speaker’ 
(decent casteronly blud prim with sunray special) and ‘boots of the elven magi’ 
(+hp mageonly footworn).  Slate loads ‘a huge iron axe’ (6d4 +hr 2handed axe).  
Michael loads ‘a pair of sterling gauntlets’ (+2dam +1hr [or reversed] goodonly 
handworn), ‘a medallion of Paladine’ (+5hp detinvis neckworn goodonly), and ‘an 
ivory staff’ (sacred ward/darkness/steelskin/restoration clerical book).  Once 
mobs are dead you can ‘move desk’ to reveal the vault panels.  You can change 
the numbers by typing ‘push left’ ‘push middle’ and ‘push right’.  I haven’t 
found the remaining combo numbers yet this wipe so I can’t include them here.  
There is also a riddle after you input the combo and ‘pull handle’, the answer 
was ‘say shadow’ last wipe, but I’m told it was changed.  The vault loads druid 
tablets (enlarge and insect swarm), ‘the ring of the High Clerist’ (unsure full 
stats but very nice, imm_drain ring), ‘a sterling claymore’ (2d10 enchantable 
2hander primeable with 26str), and ‘the hammer of the Forge’ (6d6 fast decay 
norent hammer quest item).

Mem up and head north to the up exit.  Make sure everyone is flying and kill the 
agro moves above.  Move east and 2 down quickly (nofly dts) to return back down 
to courtyard.  Head to the northwestern corner of the courtyard and kill the 
knight.  Loot the key and move into the forge.  ‘Pound stones’ to reveal a down 
exit.  Move down to fight the crypt guardian.  The guardian is nobash, hits 
decently hard, and has a laggy, high damage special it uses on random people.  
Kill it, loot the key, and unlock the tomb.  Tomb can load ‘the sword of the 
Kingfisher’ (3d7++ goodonly 2hander primeable with 24str), ‘the plate of the 
Kingfisher’ (unsure stats, very nice goodonly bodyworn), and ‘a jade key’.  The 
key is not 100% load.  If it does load, head back out to the southern part of 
the courtyard and find the locked gate/portcullis north.  Unlock it and go in to 
see if ‘a dragon orb’ is loaded on the pedestal(very special item, +1 all slot 
canfly held, causes damage when held).  


**Theiwar Caverns

This zone is located inside Kharolis mines, all south from the group of kua-toa 
scout stabbers on the lake.

The entry tunnel is inhabited by puddings, rust monsters, lurkers, and a large 
otyugh.  You want to calm/flee past the puddings since they divine repeatedly 
and frag a bunch.  Track down the otyugh, kill it, and loot the key.  Then head 
southward and go down when able, then north, east, south, down to reach the next 
level.  Kill/bash the umber hulk if you find it.  Umber hulk can load ‘the eye 
of the umber hulk’ (det invis light held).  Move to the western side of the 
cavern and type ‘ent crack’ to move through the wall and go down.  Follow the 
tunnel, killing the mobs in your way.  Use the otyugh’s key to unlock the 
trapdoor at the end and go down to the mindflayer area.  Mindflayers will poof 
away and go wizinvis if they die too slowly or aren’t held/overbashed at bad or 
lower.  Normal mindflayers can load ‘a purple silk robe’ (saves_spell bodyworn).  
At the northwestern end of the area is the Master Mindflayer who casts like a 
high level mage but is bashable.  He can also poof away and hide if you are too 
slow in killing him.  The master can load ‘a skull-shaped medallion’ 
(+1int/+1wis evilonly neckworn).  The chest in the room with the Master is 
dangerously trapped and shouldn’t be touched without a thief.  If the chest is a 
mimic, it can load ‘an emerald and electrum medallion’ (2-3 charges of AMS).  If 
the chest is trapped with a deadly area explosion, it loads ‘a staff of 
striking’ (decent damage caster prime that has a nice damage special).  Head 
back northeast, through the tunnel, and out the crack back to the umber hulk 
area.

Head north into another tunnel and turn east when able.  Kill any guards and the 
imp with the key.  Guards can load ‘a pair of black soldier boots’ (saves_para 
footworn).  Loot the key from the imp and head back west and further north.  At 
the gates kill/bash the imp and archmage.  Mage can load a 
glitter/forcebolt/locate/calm level magebook.  Move through the gate to the 4way 
interection and go west, south, and east until a closed door S, killing any 
guards on the way.  Send the tank in and have the group kill/bash apprentice, 
mage, captain.  The captain can load ‘a suit of leather armor’ (infra bodyworn).  
Loot the key from the mage and head back to the 4way junction.  Head east and 
kill the imp and either frag down or blind/calm the stoneskinned xorn.  Theiwar 
workers in this area load ‘a imp-skin pouch’ (good sized waistworn nodrop 
containers).  The conjurers can load weak enlarge potions.  Head west back to 
the 4way and go north to the golem.  Kill it and mem if needed.  Unlock the door 
and send the tank into the 2 stabber scouts.  The scouts can load ‘a black 
adamantite shortsword’ (3d4++ glowing offy sblade) and ‘a spiked wrist buckler’ 
(+dam –dex wristworn).  Mem again if needed and head 2 north.  Next room is a 
fight with the 2nd archmage, 1 or 2 scouts, and maybe 1 or 2 more mages.  
Kill/bash the archmage first, then any mages, then the scouts.  The mages can 
load ‘a gem studded bracer’ (+3rd slot wristworn).  Kill any mages east and 
north that didn’t wander in and mem.  Move north of the archmage and open the 
door and wait for a weak-stabbing tracker or two to come through.  Once done, 
move north and then send tank north again to kill adept adept priest.  The 
adepts can load ‘a black silk waistband’ (det invis waistworn).  The priest can 
load ‘a blood red cowl with black runes’ (-5hp +2wis headworn), ‘a long black 
stole lined with red’ (+int waterbreath neckworn), ‘a pair of black sleeves’ 
(+dex armworn), ‘a pair of black leggings’ (+mvs legworn), and ‘a small tattered 
prayerbook’ (summon/sunbolt/word of recall/negative plane protection clerical 
book).  Mem up and head west into the maze.

The maze is a group of spin rooms with a few theiwar scouts, hard-hitting 
glabrezus, and driver/demon teams.  Move through the spin, bashing drivers 
whenever necessary, until you reach an U exit.  Clerics should not cast in any 
rooms above the bottom of this shaft, doing so will cause the group to lose 30k 
exp a piece.  Send the tank 4 up and kill Simm.  Simm is nobash and can load ‘a 
bloody axe-shaped medallion’ (antigood saves_spell neckworn).  A glabrezu also 
likes to wander up here so find/kill him.  Run group back down the shaft for 
heals when needed.  East and north of Simm is the emaciated dwarf.  He is a 
typical caster that can be bashed, but he will poof away and hide for a few 
seconds repeatedly at low hp.  Have a tank move out/in to make him appear again.  
Dwarf can load ‘a venom dagger’ (nolore nothief nice offhand sblade that has a 
damage special), ‘a sheath in the shape of a viper’ (waistorn +envenom), and a 
‘thin golden necklace adorned with a charm’ (evilonly 8charge gate wand).


**Last Gaard Mountains

This zone is located past the steam golem on Southern Ergoth (past the Elven 
Arch).  Once over the bridge (don’t fall into the dt water) hug the west wall 
and move northward through the ogre plains.  Eventually you’ll reach some rooms 
heading west with verbeegs.  Fight through these and follow the path into the 
zone.  At the first path splitting, move 1 north and make sure everyone is 
flying (taking a tic to be sure a fly doesn’t wear is smart).  Head up and kill 
the scouts east and west before it tics.  Kill/bash the apprentices if you don’t 
make it in time.  Head back down and north into the canyon.  There are large 
groups of mobs here that don’t hit very hard.  Assisting and area eat them 
alive.  Minotaur scout leaders can load ‘a steel flail’ (2d9 prime bludgeons) 
and ‘a thick steel broadsword’ (3d5 enchantable prime lblades).  Fight through 
the canyon until another up exit.  Let it tic again and be sure all are flying, 
and head 2 up and kill the scout.  Head back down and continue northward to the 
ESW room.  Head west to the up exit, let it tic, and go up, kill the bird, up 
again and kill the last scout.  Head back down, go west, and send tank south 
into the stabber mob Ertimus.  Kill/hold him and ‘clear rubble’ to reveal some 
stuff on the ground.  Grab it and head north, and all east.  Move north into the 
valley and kill tiger tiger panther, bash panther.  Hug the west wall until you 
reach some gnolls and a tiger.  Don’t touch the gnolls, kill the tiger, and 
continue into the cave.  Go up, kill the lions, head west and kill any miners, 
go up when able, and head west and southish and west again to find and kill the 
foreman.  Loot his key and head back to the up exit.  Go up again, east, and 
have your tank ‘ent hole’ and then follow him in.  Have tank step east and north 
to the dracolisk and kill it.  Dracolisk can load ‘a mithril and gold ring’ (det 
invis ringworn) and some coins.  Move back out of the hole, west, and unlock the 
trapdoor up and move in.  Head north and kill the mobs west and let it tic.  On 
tic, have everyone ‘enter chute’ to land in the wagon.  ‘Fasten tarp’ to keep 
the enemies outside from seeing you.  Wait 2-3 tics until the wagon stops.

Once it’s stopped move out of the wagon head south, west, south (killing 
anything in your way) and head up to kill the giant chieftain and guards.  
Chieftain can load ‘a fur-trimmed girgle’ (waistworn +str).  Go down and move 
toward the southestern part of the courtyard (find the open up exit), go up, 
kill the 2 elites, and head through the door east to kill Destibus.  Loot his 
key (and the 3d4 offy axe if you like) and move back to the ramparts with the 
closed U exit (northern center of courtyard).  Have an imm_drain tank step up 
and 2 west to kill any wraiths that are there.  Give the emblem you found in 
Ertimus’ cave to the knight and he will give you 2 ghost knight charmies.  Loot 
the medallion that appeared on the ground.  Head back down the ramparts and to 
the central southern part of the courtyard.  Kill the 2 spitting guards and mem 
full.  Unlock the door and make all bashing chars ready to spam ‘bash cheetah’  
The next part of the zone involves having your tank step through the keep until 
you find and kill 4 hard stabbing cheetah mobs.  They like to flee at any hps so 
they must be bashed.  Once all 4 are dead head to the northeast corner of the 
keep and find the paymaster.  Kill the man and a leopard will spawn.  Kill/bash 
it, loot the key, (and the chest if you want 500 more coins), and head to the 
northwestern corner of the keep.  The garden in the center of the keep is a 
memroom when needed.  Kill the minotaur (ranseur sucks) and move 2 west and kill 
the elves.  Open the curtain north to find 2 more elves and Melizzir. Melizz 
loads ‘a pair of midnight blue bracers’ (+str +parry armworn).  Head east and 
south and unlock the closed doors east and check the chests.  Chests can load ‘a 
suit of ebony platemail’ (saves_spell bodyworn) and ‘a black granite axe’ (4d5 
prime axe).  Head all south past these rooms, unlock the door east, move 2 east 
and kill/bash Jaketh to the north.  He can load ‘a transparent mask’ (detinvis 
detmagic headworn) and a key.  Grab it, head south and east until an S exit, 
move south/north quickly and let the mobs die.  Head north, unlock the door n, 
move in, g all table (can load a magebook), back south and west and into the 
ambasaador room.  Kill the 2 elves and ‘move panel’ to reveal an s exit.  Follow 
the path to its end, killing all the black mages.  Mem full and move to the ES 
exit room and send tank north to fight Brith’nea.  She is nobash and heals, and 
will calm/summon 2 red abishis that need to be bashed/areaed.  Once their dead 
beat Brith down until she runs out of heals or you have a paladin that can 
avenge/abso her.  Loot the medallion from her corpse and run back to T’orgh’s 
room.  ‘Patch medallion’ to combine the fragments together.  Head back down to 
Brith’s room and ‘climb rope’ and go down to the tranquil spring.  ‘Place/set 
medallion pedestal’ to open a down exit to the crypt.  The first crypt room can 
load items in ‘1.niche’ ‘2.niche’ and ‘1.crack’. Southern crypt room loads items 
in ‘1.niche’ ‘1.crack’ and ‘2.crack’.  Western crypt room loads items on the 
ground, in ‘1.niche’ ‘skeleton’ ‘casket’ and ‘chest’.  The crypt can load (in 
various places) ‘a malachite encrusted bracelet’ (antievil +heal wristworn), ‘a 
globe of radiance’ (held light with a recharging AMS keyword), ‘bracers of 
blinding strike’ (+dex armworn), ‘a suit of adamantite mesh’ (autohide 
ranger/thief), ‘a barbed silver ring’ (+dam –health thief/ranger ringworn), ‘a 
suit of Solamnic mithril plate’ (+dam +dex bodyworn goodonly), ‘the staff of the 
Abyss’ (evilonly prime bludgeon that is a recharging gate wand), ‘a pair of 
pearl studded greaves’ (+str legworn), ‘a skull-capped mace’ (antigood 
clericonly 3d5 2/2 prime bludgeon), and ‘a suit of gold runed armor’ 
(autoinvis).


**Bay of Balifor

Find the chain ladder in the sandstone cliffs at the northeastern end of Balifor 
Bay.  Have the tank climb the ladder and the rest of the group do the same.  
Kill the guards, loot the key, and head north into the zone.  Kill/bash Karine.  
She can load ‘a pair of pitch black gloves’ (antigood +int handworn).  Move 1 
room east, get the key from the pantry, move back west and up.  Unlock the 
trapdoor, make sure tank is imm_drain, and send him u,s. Follow quickly (the 
room gets sealed off) and kill/bash the demon and then kill Shi’ar.  Shi’ar can 
load a forcebolt/locate level magebook and a pair of autosneak boots.  Mem up 
and ‘open grate’ to reveal a down exit.  Head down to the bottom and send the 
tank east.  Have your clerics blind the stoneskinned viper and either calm or 
have everyone flee off of it and retarget the Balrog.  Kill it, loot his key, 
and mem full.  Head back down and follow the path to a Warm Cave.  

Master of Maces and his dragon Gruarth is usually a medium-challenge fight for a 
good group, but it can get ugly quick.  The best tactic is to have everyone 
kill/frag dragon (its immune_heat) and bash the master.  The master doesn’t 
usually heal the dragon, but both mobs like to area.  Once dragon dies the fight 
is simple, just kill/bash the master.  The dragon loads various red dragonscale 
pieces whose stats I can’t remember and druid tablets (mass refresh, word of 
recall, fire storm).  The master loads more dragonscale pieces including ‘a red 
dragonscale book’ (nolore +int don’t try to study) and ‘a red dragonscale 
pendant’ (evil only neckworn +heal).  Master also loads ‘a small golden 
prayerbook’ (sunray/healing mist clerical book).



**Silvanesti and Silvanesti Secrets: (**Note: Silvanesti was revamped recently—
use this guide only as a starting point, it will be different now)

Silvanesti is located all the way east of Tarsis and Lantern.  The first part of 
the zone is a hideously annoying spinning forest of undead.  

Tower of the Stars:

Begin by killing as many undead elf warriors and priests as you can find until 
one of them drops ‘a white marble key’.  Once you find the key head northeasti 
through the spins until you find the Tower of the Stars entrance to the east.  
Once here mem up and head eastward into the bottom floor of the tower.  Fight 
off the undead guards and bash the lich that will come in eventually.  Head to 
the center northern wall.  Have a mage or 2 spell up and move north through the 
‘solid wall’, go up, and kill the wraiths (% reflect mobs) to open the way for 
the rest of the group.  Move the group north and up to reach Caiphus/Faldainen 
area.  Head east, kill the golem, and have a lawful good char open/loot the 
statue.  Statue can load ‘a vial of holy water’ (rentable heal potion).  
Faldainen is south of here, Ciaphus to the west.  Both are dangerous fights that 
I have actually not gotten to do.  Once done with the statue, head back down to 
the bottom floor and move to the northeast corner.  Have your best keyword 
figurer ‘ent chute’ and try to figure out the keyword to open the ceiling for 
the rest of the group.  I haven’t had a chance to play with this one myself.  
East and north of this room is the 12-headed Hydra.  It has dangerous area 
breath and random targeted attacks.  Hydra loads druid tablets (fire storm/mass 
refresh/word of recall I believe—could be tornado and charm monster however).

Head back up and south to find Lorac and a big dragon orb.  Touching the orb 
will get the person killed, so leave it alone.  ‘Guide lorac’ to have him follow 
you.  Make sure your group knows not to use ‘elf’ as a keyword when fighting the 
undead guards.  Head south and east to the staircase and head up, then west onto 
the 2nd floor.  Follow the hallway around (ignore the closed doors) west, 
southish, then east to the next staircase.  Head up the stairs, west into the 
hallway, and all south.  Move east into Lorac’s bedroom and let it tic.  He will 
wake up and attack, kill him.  Head all west and all up and kill the iron golem.  
‘Open hatch’ to reveal an up exit and Anatlab.  High lev nobash mage mob who 
summons in 2 apprentices like Cervos.  Kill Anatlab and bash the apprentices.  
He can load ‘a pair of elven boots’ (thief/ranger autosneak) and ‘an aspen 
staff’ (+int delayed +2 5th slot mageonly prime blud).  He also loads a robe 
that I can’t think of.  Head back down to Lorac’s bedroom and mem.

‘Move bed’ and ‘push/open/touch depression’ to reveal an exit to the north.  
Head in and down the stairs.  There is a room to the east with a table that can 
load ‘a teal potion’ (rentable heal potion).  North of this area is the old 
Fake-Cyan.  This fight now consists of the Nycadaemon, a red Cyclops, and a 
black lich.  This fight can take a lot of heals so don’t do it if you aren’t 
prepared.  You have to spin into the room so have your tank rescue off quickly.  
Have your group begin by killing the nycadaemon and bashing the Cyclops.  The 
nyca is a mage mob that enjoys areaing so kill it as quickly as possible.  The 
Cyclops has a nasty lag/damage/bash special he uses on the tank if it’s not 
bashed.  The lich is a nobash (reflect too I think) cleric mob with about 9-10 
heals.  The lich won’t heal the nycadaemon but it will use every last heal on 
the Cyclops.  Once the nyca is dead focus everything on the Cyclops and have 
your clerics flee out to remem if needed.  The Cyclops will obviously rescue the 
lich.  The nycadeamon loads ‘an adamantite helmet’ (+2con headworn).  The 
Cyclops can load ‘an adamantite shield’ (nolore nice clerical shield), ‘an 
adamantite breastplate’ (unsure stats), and ‘a dark mithril bracer’ (+heal 
wristworn).  Once all three are dead you have access to the portal leading to 
Cyan Bloodbane.  I’ve never gotten to fight him, so I have no idea what tactics 
to use.

Silvanesti Secrets:

Instead of (or after) hunting down a key and heading to the tower, you can 
continue to wander around the forest and fight off the undead until your group 
is suddenly teleported into a room without mobs.  From here, have a druid or 
ranger temp path ‘tyrant’ until they succeed.  Follow the path until you can 
scan the mob, but beware that there will also be stoneskinned gargoyles in the 
room if it’s nighttime.  Wait until day and kill the tyrant.  It is nobash and 
nomagic with some annoying specials, but it’s not overly difficult.  From here 
you can have your strong members ‘lift slab’ to reveal a tomb.  Head all down 
and north to find a group of mobs spread out into 2 rooms consisting of ‘a brown 
clad man’, ‘a rotting lich’, ‘a mummy’, and ‘a yellow ghost’.  If you have a 
strong group and a lot of heals you can do the fight straight up.  To do this 
move into the room with the man and engage him.  He will call the mummy and the 
lich into the room.  Have your group kill the mummy and bash the man.  Once the 
mummy dies you can either kill the lich or the man, but keep bashing the man 
(lich is nobash).  The lich heals itself and the man, so do what you can to 
outheal it.  The man can load ‘a brown robe’ (aboutworn autofly) and a very nice 
(mirror/tent/prism level) magebook.  He also loads a key to his desk that can 
load ‘a raven feather quill’ (+learn held).  Move back east and kill the ghost 
which can load ‘a ghostly shroud’ (aboutworn autoinvis).  Head back outside of 
the tomb, have strong members ‘lift slab’ again to get back out.  Note that 
gargoyles will be outside during the night.

From the eye tyrant’s room, move n,n,e,n,n,n,e,e,s,e,s,s,s,w,s,e,e to reach ‘The 
beautiful forest of Silvanesti’.  A one-armed elf wanders this area and can load 
‘a dark sack’ (aboutworn large container).  East and south are also hairless 
dogs that load ‘a bronze chain collar’ (+con neckworn) and more elves that can 
load ‘a pair of dog hair sleeves’ (+dex resist_cold armworn).  Head north and 
east to fight some tracking honor guards that can load ‘a pair of green elven 
boots’ (+2dex footworn) and some decent offhand weapons.  South of this room is 
a spring and a memroom which has elves that can load ‘a garland of white roses’ 
(mentioned below).  North of this room leads through a hidden exit into a gaunt 
cleric, a dark druid, and a silver dragon.  Mem extra cure blinds for this 
fight.  The cleric and druid are bashable, but dragon is nobash and has a sunray 
breath weapon.  Kill order is kill/bash cleric druid dualwield for dragon.  The 
cleric can load a create food wand, ‘a garland of white roses’ (goodonly +heal 
headworn), ‘a pendant of the sun’ (rentable cure crit wand), and ‘an ivory 
staff’ (sacred ward/darkness/steelskin/restoration clerical book).  The dark 
druid can load items I haven’t seen and druid tablets (summon, barrier, mass 
fly).  The dragon likely loads items I have not seen either.


**The Mound

This zone is located west off the road between Palanthas and the High Clerist’s 
Tower.  Move through the scrubland until the end, move north, and ‘move tree’ to 
open a path.  Head north to the gates, move east and kill Pooda for the key.  
Now head through the gates and hug the east wall until you find a down exit.  
Move into the Karst Caves (mem room) and kill the 2 draconians.  Head east to a 
down exit, and have your tank run 3 down (all block rooms).  The 3 draconians at 
the bottom hit relatively hard when they’re all alive.  Area/kill them—they 
frag.  Head down again and south to find Aspre Tohz.  Aspre is a high-hp pure 
melee fight.  He can load ‘a pair of spiked battle armets’ (evilonly armworn 
+dam), ‘a bloodstained steel band’ (-10ac wristworn antigood), ‘a heavy rune-
inscribed battle axe’ (3d7++ heavy axe prime antigood), and ‘a black battle 
kilt’ (+dam legworn).  Kill him and loot his strongbox which loads some of his 
items, ‘an onyx plate’ (quest item), and ‘an onyx pentagon’ (quest item).  Head 
back and mem up then come back down and move north, east of Aspre.  Send the 
tank south to agro one of the ugly draconians and have him flee out.  The drac 
will track, and 2 magical assistants will poof in when it dies.  They both cast 
and force, so keep them bashed.  When they die, move south and kill the other 
ugly drac and the 2 assistants.  

Once they’re all dead ‘place/set pentagon hole’ to release the wall.  Now have 
some of your strong members ‘slide wall’ to open an exit to the south.  This is 
a nomagic fight and the mob turns into a statue.  Jaraag loads ‘a malevolently 
hooked beast goad’ (4d4 +disarm polearm prime), ‘a suit of darkened tusk 
scalemail’ (evilonly +str bodyworn), ‘a pair of bloody butcher’s gloves’ (+dam 
evilonly handworn), ‘a bloody butcher’s apron’ (evilonly aboutworn 
immune_drain), and ‘a crimson shield of the wyrmgaard’ (nice +bash shield).  
Send a healthy tank east and kill 2 more drac sentries.  East again is another 
draconian assistant that killing will cause 2 more assistants to poof in.  Kill 
them, loot their key, and get the hemisphere from the desk/cabinet in the room.  
Now move the group back outside to the Karst caves and have them mem.  Move up 
alone (bring a tank if you need to) and head northwest through the trash.  Find 
a closed N door and go in, and kill Gopi Ratbasher.  He can load ‘a crooked 
crown of the gulldwarves’ (nolore –int +7hp delayed headworn), and loot his 
chest to get a key to the shack.  Head south, east, and then north again until 
you find ‘At the base of the statue’ and rummage.  Open the statue, loot the 
other hemisphere, and head back south some.  Find the up exit leading to the 
shack (don’t go up the slide!) go in and kill Eras.  ‘Get shovel rack’ then 
‘clear pile’ and loot the 2nd onyx plate.  Now type ‘combine onyx.plate’.  Head 
back down to the Karst Caves, round up your group, and head back down east of 
Jaraag.  Move all north by yourself (don’t use say) and finish off the keywords 
with ‘screw hemisphere’, ‘combine staff staff’, and then ‘unscrew hemisphere’.  
These keywords give 1million+ exp if done alone.

Now you can go back to your group and prep up for Ochre.  He’s a very tough red 
dragon (immune_heat, fire breath).  Once ready have your group not “say” 
anything and move back north to the portal.  Have your tank ‘say tyhin ror 
fybkes safe’ to be ported into the dragon chamber.  Once you see him fighting, 
have the rest of the group say the password and get ported in.  You want to have 
everyone kill/bash dracos because he will flee/stab very hard.  Dracos is also 
para/holdable and landing one will end him quickly.  Once Dracos dies have 
everyone dualwield for Ochre.  An iceshield scroll helps immensely here as Ochre 
has a shitload of hitpoints and regens a ton of them every tic.  Beat/cold spell 
him down as fast as possible.  Dracos loads ‘a cloak of bloody scalps’ 
(save_spell -2 [maybe para] aboutworn antigood), ‘a crimson dragon spine 
javelin’ (very nice prime thief stabber), ‘a red metallic javelin’ (harder to 
frag nice thief stabber), and ‘a set of blood stained leather wrappings’ 
(antigood bodyworn +2int +wis).  Ochre can load ‘a mithril crimson bracer’ (+con 
autoinvis wristworn) and some other nice things I haven’t seen.  He also loads a 
magebook (mirror/tent/prism(?) level).  


**Dargaard Keep

This zone is located southwest of Kalaman.  This zone isn’t overly complicated 
but is filled with angry undead of all sorts.  You want to hunt down and kill 
all of the undead guards and knights before making a move on Lord Soth.  Beware 
of the Fire-Blasted Room as it is a non-scannable dt.  Undead guards wander all 
over the keep, but the knights are stationary.  There is one guarding the base 
of the stairs on the bottom floor, and 4-5 move in the guardposts on the floor 
just below the top.  The undead knights can load ‘a fire-blasted shield’ 
(resist_heat lightweight), ‘a charred bastard sword’ (4d4 enchantable 
lightweight 2handed sword), ‘a charred long sword’ (2d7 offhand lblade), and ‘a 
charred visor’ (infra headworn).  During nighttime there are banshees guarding 
the staircase and they can load ‘a sheer gown of gossamer’ (aboutworn 
autoinvis).  Once you’ve cleared out the guards head up to the top floor and 
move south, east, south and kill/bash Caradoc.  Mem full for Lord Soth.

Soth can be one of the most deadly fights in the game.  He needs to be bashed 
the instant he stands, and he’s not easy to bash.  He randomly PWK’s (no save 
anymore) a group member, but never seems to do it to the maintank.  There is a 
spellcasting banshee in the room, so have your tanks engage the banshee first 
and then being bashing Soth.  Use area/elemental spells to kill the Banshee as 
fast as possible.  Soth is immune cold and heat.  Once he dies, any 
guards/knights you didn’t kill will track in to the group.  Lord Soth loads ‘a 
two-handed sword stained black with blood’ (6d6 3/3 antigood 2handed sword), 
‘the plate of the black rose’ (antigood saves_spell bodyworn), ‘the shield of 
the black rose’ (antigood saves_spell shield), ‘a pair of pitch black vambraces’ 
(save_spell canfly armworn), ‘a set of pitch black greaves’ (saves_spell 
legworn), ‘a plumed helm and visor’ (2wis headworn), ‘a set of pitch black 
bracer’ (unsure stats), ‘a tattered purple cloak’ (neck/aboutworn saves_heat), 
‘a heavy black belt’ (+con waistworn), and ‘a pair of ice cold gauntlets’ (+2str 
handworn).  You can ‘move rug’ to reveal a room beneath with a chest.  The chest 
has an edrain trap, so have it disabled. Chest can load a magebook (unsure 
level) and ‘a book of the dead’ (animate dead clerical book).



**Stone Bluff

This zone is located on the eastern shores of the Newsea.  Once you reach the 
closed gates, have a good aligned char go east, up (and west, up) and pull the 
levers on each side.  Then ‘press gates’ to open the path.  There is a block 
room to get through and then an old dwarf that repops to kill.  Once he’s dead 
head all north and then all east.  ‘Pull ring’ to open a door northward and wait 
for 2 mobs to track out and attack an evil char.  Once they’re dead you have to 
kill an obsidian goldem in the room to the north.  The golems are nobash and 
need to be silenced or else a group of 6 dwarven guards and their horses will 
track in and attack.  Move in as a group and have all your casters silence the 
golem.  Once silenced, make sure they frag it down because of its high hps.  
Head north, open the door, and move north, east to find a memroom.  Mem if 
necessary and go back into the keep and kill the 2nd obsidian golem to the west.  
Head all east to the room with the closed gates and ‘open gates’ to reveal an up 
exit.  Send the tank in and kill the guard, sergeant groups.  There are 4 groups 
of a guard and a sergeant that are limit_damage high hp mobs.  Move around the 
perimeter of this area until all 4 of the guard groups are dead.  They do 
scantrack so be careful.  Run down to the tree and mem when necessary.  

Once all the guards are dead you can mem and prep up for the Thane fight.  This 
is a very high melee damage fight with 1 caster mob that usually dies quickly.  
The mobs enjoy spamming target so have your casters not assist if possible and 
make sure your tank is quick on the rescues.  Have everyone begin by 
killing/bashing the clerk.  Area helps a ton for this fight.  Once the clerk 
dies kill order is guard guard captain thane.  The captain is immune_fire and 
nobash.  You may want to flee out and remem at some point if you are burning too 
many heals.  This fight can load (on various mobs) ‘a jeweled sceptre’ 
(nightvision held), ‘a holy talisman’ (nolore +intish tank headworn), ‘a pair of 
silver arm braces’ (+str armworn), ‘a dwarven shatang’ (2d9 enchantable prime 
lblade), and ‘a thick silver belt’ (+8/10hp waistworn).  Once everything is dead 
‘relax throne’, head east, north, down, all west outside the gate, and north to 
find a key.  Head back to the tree and mem.

From the tree, head all west and follow the path to the well.  ‘Pull lever’ to 
drain the well and send the tank down.  Let the Zorn track into him, then move 
in and kill it.  Move a few west and send the tank into the 2 golems and the 
statue.  Have tanks bash/target the statue and the casters frag down the skinned 
golems.  The golems stick weapons on death.  The statue loads ‘a pair of mithril 
leg braces’ (7hp legworn) and another key.  Run back to the tree and have your 
group mem/recall.  Go into the keep toward the southeastern area and find the 
Trophy Room.  ‘Push button’ to reveal a down exit and go in.  Move east (if you 
can) and ‘unlock/open recess’.  Head all east to find a chest.  Unlock/loot it.  
Chest loads ‘a ring of finest silver’ (bashmod ringworn), ‘a fine dwarven katar’ 
(3d6 3/3 lblade prime), ‘a moonstone pendant’ (immune_cold neckworn tankonly), 
‘an emerald studded gold bracelet’ (+heal wristworn), and magebooks (ams/relo 
level probably).



**Largus Sarian (Blacken/Icen/Greenen)

These are pretty standard zones so I won’t go into a huge amount of detail in 
stepping through them.

Blacken:

The monks here can load ‘a thin black sword’ (2d7 +3dam thief stabber) and ‘a 
translucent black ring’ (-con autovinis antigood ring).  The high priest loads 
‘a blackend chest’, ‘a black stone’ (+2dam held), and ‘a jeweled black belt’ 
(+con waistworn).  The vault here (southeastern corner through a hidden S exit) 
loads ‘a beautiful violet rose’ (autofly held).  The hidden panel east of the 
frozen also loads ‘a black stone’.  The black dragon loads ‘a suit of black 
platemail’ (nocharm and maybe +str).




Icen:

Cold monks load ‘a ring of ice’ (resist_heat –ac) and ‘a shard of ice’ (3d5 
offhand piercer).  You can find the white dragon by going n,w,w,w,s,s,s,w,s from 
the entrance room.  The dragon loads ‘a suit of white platemail’ 
(nocharm_nosummon), ‘an ingraved ivory staff’ (nolore 4d4++ish held canfly 
bludgeon), a magebook (forcebolt/locate level), and druid tablets 
(stratification, cone of cold, paralysis).  You can find the white temple door 
by heading all south, west, all south (or near enough) from the entrance room.  
The cold high priest loads ‘a pair of white boots’ (+mvs).  The chest behind the 
locked doors (keys load on high priest and monks roaming outside) can load ‘an 
icy white bracelet’ (resist_cold) and ‘a hooded white chasuble’ (goodonly +heal 
bodyworn).

Greenen:

You can find the green temple by either going north or south and then up from 
the entrance room.  East and north from the green temple door is a statue that 
you can open ‘open statue…’ to reveal a room to the east.  This room loads ‘an 
ancient green sword’ (nolore 5d5++ish detinvis 2handed sword).  Fight your way 
through the priests all south but 1 from the green temple door, then go east, 
south to fight to green high priest.  High priest loads ‘a vine belt’ (+wis 
waistworn), ‘a malachite ring’ (+hitroll), and ‘a small tattered prayerbook’ 
(summon/word of recall/sunbolt/negative plane protection clerical book).  Head 
back to the entrance room for greenen.  From here you can head 3south, west and 
south more (if I remember this path correctly) to find a locked down exit (pick 
or use high priest’s key).  Down here you will find 4 locked doors in all 4 
directions.  You can only unlock 2 so choose wisely.  North leads to a cure crit 
wand, east leads to a +wis held sphere, south leads to something I can’t 
remember but sucks, and west leads to a +5learn held cube.  The wyrms in this 
area like to load str/ref potions also.  Again head back to greenen entrance, 
but this time head all east.  Once you reach a wall follow the path south 
(ignore the dt-looking room) until you reach a door.  Mem full and prepare for 
the dragon.  Greenen dragon loads ‘a malachite encrusted helmet’ (+con/hp 
headworn nolore), ‘a malachite inlaid ring’ (+heal ringworn), ‘a suit of green 
platemail’ (nocharm +str), druid tablets (fire storm/mass refresh/word of 
recall), and mage books (relo/ams/cloudkill level).


**Temple of Takhisis

This zone begins with the statue of Takhisis in Neraka.  Kill the statue and 
loot the gem.  ‘Say one world order’ to conjure the portal and head in.  Have 
your group wait outside for a few seconds while you open the gates.  ‘Say 
Submit, or die!’ to open the gate, and then ‘present gem/amulet statue’ to quell 
the statue guardian.  Reform your group and head all north.  Have the casters 
and tanks form their respective groups, tanks have to go through nomagic east 
and casters have to go west.  Easiest for the casters to engage/flee past the 
mobs rather than kill them.  The casters just follow their path to the end of 
the gauntlet.  The tanks can follow their path and find/kill the shadow beast 
who loads ‘a black fang of a shadow beast’ (3d5 nightvision thief stabber 
prime).  Tanks need to find the sleeping demon and kill it for the key, it also 
loads ‘a black pronged trident’ (2d9 +2 dam piercer prime).  Then head north to 
kill the 2 undead edraining mobs and then out of the gauntlet.

Once back together and healed up, try to get your group to stop typing.  This is 
nearly impossible to do cause people suck, but try anyway.  Head north and up 
the stairs.  If you try and go north through the hall of statues pairs of mobs 
will appear and attack.  To avoid this you can go around them either east or 
west (if your group isn’t spinning the room).  Move all north and then back west 
or east to the end of the statues.  Have the tank move north to piss off the 
5headed dragon statue and kill the heads/body.  Head north and up to the 
hourglass room.  Smash it with ‘strike hourglass’.  Head south and kill the sand 
beast.  It can load some horribly shitty pants you should lore yourself just for 
kicks.  Head further south, up the stairs, and north to a dead end.  ‘Open 
curtain’ to reveal an exit to the north.  North of here is the first fight with 
Spauld and he has Kelvos with him.  Kill/bash Spauld until he dies or recalls, 
then kill the skull knights that appear and then Kelvos.  Spauld can load ‘a 
swirling black potion’ (rentable heal potion) and ‘a necklace of gnomish ears’ 
(antigood +wis neckworn).  Kelvos can load ‘a heavy steel battle axe’ (high str 
3d7++ -dex axe prime).  Mem up heals and make sure your best tanks are at the 
bottom of the group list.  Head up the stairs

Move into the mirrored halls until Kalidon stabs your tank (he stabs for 550+ 
and triple oblits, make sure you have a 650hp+ tank and quick healers).  
Bash/frag/blind him down fast before he flees.  Kalidon can load ‘the boots of 
shadows whisper’ (nolore autosneak thiefonlyish), ‘a black assassin’s emblem’ 
(+dam or so).  Might load other things I never see.  Once he’s dead head all 
south through the spins until you reach a dead end.  Type ‘shatter mirror’ to 
start the cycle of 4 mobs.  The order is lich, zorn, beholder, lord.  All but 
lord are nobash.  Lord cahybor loads ‘a mirror shield’ (+10hp -10bash shield 
with recharging mirror image keyword).  ‘Shatter mirror’ again once lord is dead 
to open the passage.  Mem if necessary and head south and up to the end.  Have 
your tank ‘climb stairs’ and then the rest of the group after him.  This fight 
is Spauld again and some commander I can’t remember.  Kill/bash Spauld first 
again until he recalls/dies.  Commander loads ‘a huge broadsword of blackened 
steel’ (3d6++ antigood prime lblade), ‘a deep black steel ring’ 
(antigood/evilonly +dex ring), and 1 more thing I can’t remember.  Once they’re 
dead ‘move/push/shove altar’ and ‘lift/pry/pull tile’ to reveal another portal.  
Have everyone enter it and kill the 2 dark knight guards.  Mem full.

The final fight order here is kill/bash Spauld then kill dragon bash borbane.  
The dragon (Blanc) is nobash and immune_acid.  Spauld can load ‘an ancient tome’ 
(gate/animate/str of one clerical book).  Blanc loads ‘a dragon skull helm’ 
(evilonly +heal headworn).  Borbane loads stuff that I haven’t seen.


**The Mushroom Forest

This is a zone damningly similar to Largus Sarian so I won’t go into great 
detail stepping through it.  You reach this zone by typing ‘glare mirror’ in the 
Faerie Queen’s room in faerie kingdom.  There are 4 levels: green, red, black, 
ice.  Each level has a boss imp and 2 separate spores you can breathe.  The 
correct spores take you to the next level up and the wrong spores take you to 
the entrance of your current level.  The green imp boss is west of the entrance 
and he loads ‘a translucent wing’ (held canfly) and some other item I can’t 
remember.  Roam around until you find the spores and have everyone (tank first) 
‘breathe spores, wake stand).  The red imp boss is southwest of the entrance and 
can load ‘a glowing orb of fire’ (held light resist_heat) and ‘a fiery red 
cloak’ (aboutworn det invis).  The spores are eastward somewhere.  The black imp 
boss is in the northeast corner and loads ‘a dark black robe’ (no idea) and ‘a 
faerie bone necklace’ (+5learn neckworn).  The spores are west of the boss on 
this level.  The ice imp boss is in the southeast corner and you need to ‘break 
ice’ to awaken him.  He loads ‘a frozen crown of iron’ (mage/druid/cleric 2int 
headworn) and ‘a spiked ice bracelet’ (easyfrag +dam wristworn).  After killing 
the ice imp and memming have everyone breathe/wake/stand again and gust away the 
cloudkill that appears.  To the north is the Illusionist, a mob that creates a 
lot of fake output and change his shape, so tell your group to ignore it and not 
panic.  He is nobash but not that hard.  He can load ‘a bracelet of polished 
sodalite’ (+10hp wristworn), another item I don’t see enough to remember, and a 
fireshield/iceshield/mirror image/or ams prep norent item.  If you ‘stare 
mirror’ in the Illusionists room, you are transported to the mirror creature 
nomagic area in Ancient Keep.


**Alpine Glacier

This zone is a group of spin rooms with wildlife that load a few neat items and 
a very tough white dragon named Frostbyte.  It’s located in the Kharolis 
Mountains south of Thorbardin and west of Tarsis.  Make sure everyone is flying 
and spin through the rooms, killing/areaing the wildlife.  Snow eagles can load 
‘a snowy white eagle feather’ (held autofly), polar bears load ‘a white polar 
bear pelt’ (aboutworn fastdecay resist_cold), bighorn sheep load ‘a bighorn 
sheep skull’ (+bash headworn), and snow leopards load ‘a snow leopard’s tail’ 
(+dex waistworn.

Somewhere on the glacier is a hidden down exit that leads into a crevice.  To 
find it either make a non flying charmie and roam the glacier or move down in 
the spins whenever able.  At the bottom, send a tank west and kill/bash the 4 
ice imps.  Move north and east and mem full/prep for the nasty dragon.  
Frostbyte hits excessively hard (triple nasty oblits) and has a whole posse of 
lackeys around him.  When you first move in there will be 2 white slaads and 
Frosty.  When each slaad dies, 3 ice imp will poof in and area/attack.  The kill 
order for this fight is: slaad imp imp imp slaad imp imp imp dragon.  Assign 
bashers to each slaad and to as many imps as you can.  Once all the trash are 
dead, dualwield and frag the dragon down.  Frosty can 1-round a very high hp 
tank if he’s bashed, so it is wise to get a steelskin potion (and a fireshield) 
before doing this fight.  Frosty also area stuns repeatedly and casts mage 
spells.  He loads ‘a frosted tin ring’ (+dam ring), ‘a frosted tin helm’ (+con 
headworn I think), ‘a frosted tin plate’ (canfly bodyworn), ‘a frosted tin 
bracer’ (+all slot mageonly), ‘a frosted tin blade’ (4d4++ offhand lblade), and 
druid tablets (summon/mass fly/barrier).  East of Frostbyte is his chest that 
needs a said keyword phrase to open.  The clue for the chest is “You see an 
image of Morgion turning tin dragons into ice dragons.  The time has come again, 
from ice to tin.”  The old phrase was ‘say tin to dust’, but it was changed to 
something nearly impossible.  The chest used to load magebooks of decent level 
and ‘a laboradorite book’ that wiped away a failed spell.




**Prepared in response to the proliferation of insider information to scumbags 
who only play to ruin the game for others.  Hopefully better players will have a 
chance to gain a foothold against the growing scum infection.

https://ssl./
http://www./
http://members.multimania.co.uk/arcticmud/maps/text/javascript
